# GOVERNMENT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

**Number: 117/2025/ND-CP**

Hanoi, June 9, 2025



DECREE

REGULATIONS ON TAX MANAGEMENT FOR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS AND DIGITAL PLATFORMS OF HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS

*Pursuant to the Law on Organization of the Government dated February 18, 2025;*

*Pursuant to the Law on Tax Administration dated June 13, 2019;*

*Pursuant to the Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Securities, the Law on Accounting, the Law on Independent Auditing, the Law on State Budget, the Law on Management and Use of Public Assets, the Law on Tax Administration, the Law on Personal Income Tax, the Law on National Reserves, the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations dated November 29, 2024;*

*Pursuant to the Law on Value Added Tax dated June 3, 2008 and the Laws amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax dated June 3, 2008; Law on Value Added Tax dated November 29, 2024;*

*Pursuant to the Law on Personal Income Tax dated November 21, 2007; Law amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Income Tax dated November 22, 2012;*

*At the request of the Minister of Finance;*

*The Government issued a Decree regulating tax management for business activities on e-commerce platforms and digital platforms of households and individuals.*


## Chapter I

GENERAL PROVISIONS


### Article 1. Scope of regulation

This Decree provides:

1. Scope of responsibility for deducting and paying tax in lieu of value added tax and personal income tax of organizations that are managers of e-commerce trading floors, organizations that are managers of digital platforms with payment functions (including domestic and foreign organizations) and organizations with other digital economic activities.

2. How organizations managing e-commerce trading floors, digital platform managers and other organizations with digital economic activities deduct, pay taxes on behalf of, and declare deducted taxes for business transactions on e-commerce platforms and digital platforms of households and individuals.

3. Records and procedures for tax declaration, tax payment and tax refund of households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce and digital platforms.


### Article 2. Subjects of application

1. Organizations that are managers of e-commerce trading floors, organizations that are managers of digital platforms with payment functions and organizations with other digital economic activities are subject to withholding and paying taxes on behalf of others.

2. Households, resident individuals and non-resident individuals with business activities on e-commerce platforms and digital platforms.

3. Tax authorities and related organizations and individuals.


### Article 3. Interpretation of terms

In this Decree, the following terms are construed as follows:

1. The organization is the manager of an e-commerce trading floor, the organization is the manager of a digital platform with payment functions is the manager of a platform set up for buyers to make direct payments through payment methods such as e-wallets, bank cards or payments, transfers via payment accounts, integrated transfer systems, cash on delivery (Cash On Delivery) and other payment methods as prescribed by law.

2. Organizations with other digital economic activities are organizations in Vietnam that, on behalf of foreign e-commerce and digital platform providers, make income payments to households and individuals from digital information content products and services in accordance with the law on information technology.

Organizations that are managers of e-commerce trading floors, organizations that are managers of digital platforms with payment functions, and organizations with other digital economic activities specified in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article are called e-commerce platform management organizations.

3. E-commerce platforms in this Decree include e-commerce platforms and digital platforms.

4. Residents and non-residents shall comply with the provisions of the law on personal income tax.


## Chapter II

SCOPE OF RESPONSIBILITY, METHODS OF DEDUCTION, TAX PAYMENT ON BEHALF OF TAX DEDUCTIONS, AND DECLARATION OF DEDUCTED TAX AMOUNT OF E-COMMERCE PLATFORM MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATIONS SUBJECT TO DEDUCTION AND TAX PAYMENT ON BEHALF OF TAX DEDUCTIONS


### Article 4. Tax deduction and payment on behalf of others

1. Organizations managing domestic and foreign e-commerce platforms that are subject to withholding and paying taxes on behalf of others (including owners directly managing e-commerce platforms or persons authorized to manage e-commerce platforms) shall deduct and pay taxes on behalf of others the value added tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the law on value added tax for each transaction of providing goods and services generating revenue domestically by households and individuals conducting business on e-commerce platforms.

2. Organizations managing domestic and foreign e-commerce platforms that are subject to withholding and paying taxes on behalf of (including owners directly managing e-commerce platforms or persons authorized to manage e-commerce platforms) shall deduct and pay taxes on behalf of residents the personal income tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the law on personal income tax for each transaction of providing goods and services generating domestic and foreign revenue of residents conducting business on e-commerce platforms; shall deduct and pay taxes on behalf of non-residents the personal income tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the law on personal income tax for each transaction of providing goods and services generating domestic revenue of non-residents conducting business on e-commerce platforms.


### Article 5. Time for deduction and determination of tax amount to be deducted

1. Time of deduction: The organization managing the e-commerce platform specified in Article 4 of this Decree shall deduct the value added tax and personal income tax payable for each transaction of providing goods and services generating revenue on the e-commerce platform under its management immediately upon confirming the successful transaction and accepting payment for the transaction of selling goods and services on the e-commerce platform to households and individuals.

2. The amount of value added tax and personal income tax to be deducted is determined as a percentage (%) of the revenue of each transaction of selling goods and providing services.

   - The percentage of value added tax calculated is implemented according to the provisions of the Law on Value Added Tax as follows:

a.1) Goods: 1%

a.2) Services: 5%

a.3) Transportation and services associated with goods: 3%

   - The percentage of personal income tax is implemented according to the provisions of the Law on Personal Income Tax as follows:

b.1) For resident individuals

b.1.1) Goods: 0.5%

b.1.2) Services: 2%

b.1.3) Transportation and services associated with goods: 1.5%

b.2) For non-resident individuals

b.2.1) Goods: 1%

b.2.2) Services: 5%

b.2.3) Transportation and services associated with goods: 2%

c. In case the organizations managing e-commerce platforms subject to deduction and payment cannot determine whether the transaction generating revenue from the e-commerce platform is goods or services or type of service, the determination of the amount of tax to be deducted shall be implemented according to the highest percentage rate prescribed in Point a of this Clause and according to the highest percentage rate of the service prescribed for residents or non-residents prescribed in Point b of this Clause.

   - Revenue from each transaction of selling goods or providing services is the amount of money from selling goods or services that the household or individual receives and that the organization managing the e-commerce platform collects on their behalf.


### Article 6. Method of declaring and paying deducted tax

1. Organizations managing e-commerce platforms shall declare the amount of tax deducted monthly.

For canceled or returned transactions, the organization managing the e-commerce platform shall offset the deducted or paid tax of the canceled or returned transaction with the deducted or paid tax of the sales of goods and provision of services.

The amount of tax paid on behalf of the organization managing the e-commerce platform is determined by the total tax of the transactions selling goods and providing services after offsetting with the total tax of the canceled or returned transactions of households and individuals (if any).

Organizations managing domestic e-commerce platforms are assigned a separate tax code (10-digit tax code) by the tax authority system to declare and pay deducted taxes on behalf of the organization and do not have to submit tax registration documents.

Organizations managing e-commerce platforms abroad are granted 10-digit tax codes to perform tax obligations arising in Vietnam (if any) as prescribed for foreign suppliers in Circular No. 80/2021/TT-BTC dated September 29, 2021 of the Minister of Finance and are allowed to use this tax code to declare and pay the deducted tax of households and individuals residing in business on e-commerce platforms abroad.

2. The declaration of deducted tax includes:

   - Tax deduction declaration for households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 01/CNKD-TMĐT issued with this Decree;

   - Detailed list of deducted tax of households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 01-1/BK-CNKD-TMĐT issued with this Decree.

3. Location and deadline for submitting declaration and paying deducted tax:

   - The organization managing the e-commerce platform submits tax declarations electronically. The agency receiving and processing tax declarations is the tax authority managing the organization managing the e-commerce platform.

   - The organizations specified in Article 4 of this Decree shall prepare a detailed list of tax payments according to Form No. 01/BKNT-TMĐT attached to this Decree and send it to the tax authority after completing the payment to the state budget. The deadline for preparing and sending the detailed list of tax payments is the same as the deadline for tax payment according to the provisions of law on tax management.

   - Location, deadline for submitting tax declaration dossiers and location, form of tax payment, and deadline for tax payment shall comply with the provisions of law on tax administration.


### Article 7. Responsibilities of the organization managing the e-commerce platform subject to tax deduction and payment on behalf of the taxpayer

1. Register to use and process tax deduction documents for business activities on e-commerce platforms according to the provisions of law on invoices and documents.

2. Issue tax deduction certificates for business activities on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 01/CTKT-TMĐT issued with this Decree annually by electronic means to households and individuals.

3. Manage names and passwords of accounts issued by tax authorities; store business transaction data, information and documents related to determining tax payable and tax deducted by households and individuals according to tax management laws.

4. Carry out tax deductions, declare the amount of tax deducted, and pay the amount of tax deducted accurately and completely according to the information provided by households and individuals and according to the provisions of this Decree; be responsible before the law for the accuracy, honesty, and completeness of tax records.

The organization managing the e-commerce platform that is subject to tax deduction and payment on behalf of the taxpayer has declared information on the tax amount deducted and paid on behalf of households and individuals to the tax authority according to the provisions of this Decree. It is not required to provide information of households and individuals according to the provisions of Decree No. 91/2022/ND-CP dated October 30, 2022 of the Government amending and supplementing a number of articles of Decree No. 126/2020/ND-CP dated October 19, 2020 of the Government detailing a number of articles of the Law on Tax Administration .

5. Provide other information on business activities on e-commerce platforms as required by tax authorities in accordance with the law on tax administration.

6. Make full and timely payment of the tax amount deducted or paid on behalf of households and individuals for cancelled transactions or returned goods.


## Chapter III

DOCUMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR TAX DECLARATION, TAX PAYMENT AND TAX REFUNDS OF HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS WITH BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS


### Article 8. Records and procedures for tax declaration and payment of households and individuals residing and doing business on e-commerce platforms without payment functions

1. Households and individuals residing and doing business on e-commerce platforms without direct payment functions must fulfill their obligations to pay value added tax, personal income tax, special consumption tax, environmental protection tax, resource tax and other revenues payable to the state budget managed by tax authorities in accordance with the provisions of the law on tax and other relevant laws, and must declare and pay taxes electronically.

2. Tax declaration

   - Households and individuals with business activities on e-commerce platforms shall make monthly declarations.

   - Households and individuals with irregular business activities on e-commerce platforms shall declare each time they occur.

3. Procedures for registration, declaration, submission of tax declaration and tax payment

   - Tax declaration documents

Tax declaration for households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 02/CNKD-TĐMT issued with this Decree.

   - Tax registration procedures, tax declaration submission deadlines, and tax payment procedures shall comply with the provisions of tax administration law.

   - The agency receiving and processing tax declaration dossiers is the tax authority managing the locality where the household or individual resides (current residence/temporary residence/permanent residence).


### Article 9. Records and procedures for tax declaration and payment for non-resident individuals paying taxes on e-commerce platforms without payment functions

1. Non-resident individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms without direct payment functions shall pay value-added tax and personal income tax on goods and services traded on e-commerce platforms at a percentage (%) of revenue according to the provisions of the Law on Value-Added Tax and the Law on Personal Income Tax .

2. The percentage of value added tax and the percentage of personal income tax are implemented according to the provisions of the Law on Value Added Tax and the Law on Personal Income Tax as follows:

   - Percentage rate for calculating value added tax

a.1) Goods: 1%

a.2) Services: 5%

a.3) Transportation and services associated with goods: 3%

   - Percentage rate for calculating personal income tax

b.1) Goods: 1%

b.2) Services: 5%

b.3) Transportation and services associated with goods: 2%

3. Tax declaration

   - Non-resident individuals subject to the provisions of Clause 1 of this Article shall declare value added tax on domestic sales of goods, provision of services on e-commerce platforms, personal income tax and pay tax to the E-commerce Tax Department for each occurrence by electronic means.

   - Non-resident individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms without payment functions must register for electronic tax transactions and register for tax for the first time through tax declaration documents.

4. Tax declaration and payment procedures

   - Tax declaration dossier: Tax declaration for non-resident individuals doing business on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 03/CNNN-TMĐT issued with this Decree.

   - The deadline for submitting tax declarations and paying taxes shall comply with the provisions of the law on tax administration.


### Article 10. Tax refund dossier and procedures

1. In case a household or individual has been organized as prescribed in Article 4 of this Decree to deduct and pay tax on behalf of the value added tax and personal income tax as prescribed in Article 5 of this Decree for transactions arising in the year but has annual revenue of all business activities that are not subject to value added tax and personal income tax, the tax refund procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law on tax administration for the excess tax paid after the organization managing the e-commerce platform has completed the obligation to declare and pay tax on behalf of the deducted tax of the household or individual with business activities on e-commerce platforms in the tax year.

2. In case a household or individual has paid value added tax and personal income tax on transactions arising during the year as prescribed in Articles 8 and 9 of this Decree but has annual revenue from all business activities that are not subject to value added tax and personal income tax, the tax refund procedure shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law on tax administration for the excess tax paid.

3. Tax refund application file: Tax refund application of households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms according to Form No. 03/CNKD-TMĐT issued with this Decree.

4. The agency receiving and processing tax refund applications is the tax authority managing the area where the household or individual resides (current residence/temporary residence/permanent residence).


## Chapter IV

IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS


### Article 11. Responsibilities of households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms

1. Households and individuals residing and doing business on e-commerce platforms are responsible for declaring and paying special consumption tax, environmental protection tax, resource tax and other revenues payable to the state budget collected by tax authorities in accordance with the provisions of the law on tax, the law on tax management and other relevant laws.

2. Households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms are responsible for providing complete and accurate information on tax codes or personal identification numbers (for Vietnamese citizens); passport numbers or identification information issued by competent foreign authorities (for foreign citizens) and mandatory information for sellers as prescribed by the law on e-commerce to the organization managing the e-commerce platform.

3. Provide accurate, complete and timely information and documents related to determining tax obligations to organizations managing e-commerce platforms that are subject to tax deduction and payment and are responsible for performing tax obligations according to the provisions of this Decree.

4. Households and individuals whose value-added tax and personal income tax have been deducted, declared and paid on their behalf by the organization managing the e-commerce platform as prescribed in this Decree shall not have to declare and pay value-added tax and personal income tax for business activities on the e-commerce platform for which tax has been deducted and paid on their behalf.


### Article 12. Responsibility for implementation

1. Ministers and heads of ministerial-level agencies, based on their assigned functions and tasks, are responsible for implementing this Decree.

2. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for guiding and organizing the implementation of solutions to support organizations managing e-commerce platforms subject to tax deduction and payment in accordance with the provisions of this Decree.

3. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is responsible for implementing solutions to manage all e-commerce business activities and coordinate with the Ministry of Finance to implement solutions to support organizations in managing e-commerce platforms subject to deduction and payment of taxes on behalf of taxpayers in accordance with the provisions of this Decree.

4. The Director of the Tax Department guides the reception, inspection and comparison of data to automatically resolve tax refunds on the tax sector's information technology application system for tax refund dossiers of households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms according to the provisions of tax management law; provides information on tax numbers deducted and paid by the e-commerce platform management organization on behalf of households and individuals through the taxpayer's electronic tax account; supports households and individuals in using personal identification numbers instead of tax codes when the tax codes have been integrated into personal identification numbers.

5. The Chairman of the People's Committee of the province or centrally-run city shall direct local agencies and units to coordinate in implementing this Decree.


### Article 13. Entry into force

This Decree comes into force from July 1, 2025.

In case the legal documents referred to in this Decree are amended, supplemented or replaced, the amended, supplemented or replaced documents shall apply./.




Recipients:
- Central Party Secretariat;
- Deputy Prime Ministers;
- Ministries, ministerial-level agencies, Government agencies; -
People's Councils and People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Central Office and Party Committees ; -
Office of the General Secretary ; - Office of the President; - Nationality Council and Committees of the National Assembly
; - Office of the National Assembly; - Supreme People's Court ; - Supreme People's Procuracy; - State Audit ; - Central Committee of the Vietnam Fatherland Front; - Central agencies of mass organizations; - Government Office: BTCN, PCNs, Assistant to the Prime Minister, General Director of the Electronic Information Portal, Departments, Bureaus, affiliated units, Official Gazette; - File: VT, KTTH (2b)









ON BEHALF OF
# THE GOVERNMENT THE PRIME MINISTER
## DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER




Ho Duc Phoc



Appendix

(Attached to Decree No. 117/2025/ND-CP dated June 9, 2025 of the Government)

STT

Content​

Form No.: 01/CNKD-TMĐT

Tax deduction declaration for households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms

Form No.: 01-1/BK-CNKD-TMĐT

Detailed list of deducted taxes of households and individuals doing business on e-commerce platforms

Form No.: 01/BKNT-TMĐT

Detailed list of tax payments of the organization managing the e-commerce platform

Form No.: 02/CNKD-TMĐT

Tax declaration for households and individuals doing business on e-commerce platforms

Form No.: 03/CNNN-TMĐT

Tax declaration for non-resident individuals doing business on e-commerce platforms

Form No.: 01/CTKT-TM

Tax deduction documents for households and individuals conducting business activities on e-commerce platforms

Form No.: 03/CNKD-TMĐT

Tax refund request document of households and individuals with business activities on e-commerce platforms



Form No.: 01/CNKD-TMĐT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

TAX DEDUCTION DECLARATION FOR HOUSEHOLDS
AND INDIVIDUALS WITH
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

[01] Tax calculation period: Month ...year……..

[02] First time: □ [03] Supplement number:....

[04] Name of the organization managing the e-commerce platform:……………………………..

[05] Tax code to be deducted and paid on behalf of: …………………………………………………......

[06] Tax agent name (if any): …………………………………………………................

[07] Tax code: …………………………………………………...................................................

[08] Tax agency contract: No:…………………………..Date:………………………...

Currency unit : ...

STT

Industry group

Index code

Revenue of households and individuals

Tax deducted

VAT collection

Personal income tax

Total​

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7) = (5) + (6)

1

Supply of goods

[09]









2

Service Provider

[10]









3

Transport , services associated with goods

[11]









4

Unable to identify goods or services or type of services

[12]











Total :

[13]









I certify that the above declared data is correct and I am legally responsible for the declared data.





TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………….Practice certificate number: …
..

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and seal (if any)/ Electronic
signature )



Form No.: 01-1/BK-CNKD-TMĐT

DETAILED LIST OF TAX DEDUCTED BY HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS
WITH BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

(Attached with Declaration Form 01/CNKD-TMĐT)

[01] Tax calculation period: Month………….year…………………

[02] First time: □ [03] Supplement number:....

[04] Name of the organization managing the e-commerce platform: ……………………………….

[05] Tax code to be deducted and paid on behalf of: …………………………………………………………..

[06] Tax agent name (if any): …………………………………………………………………..

[07] Tax code: ………………………………………………………………………………….

[08] Tax agency contract: No: …………………………………………Date: ………………

Currency unit :...

STT

Name of e-commerce platform

Management code on the e-commerce platform of the seller is a household or individual

Store name/ Account name on e-commerce platform

Household name /Personal name

Tax code /Personal identification number (CCCD number/Passport number/Identification document number of household, individual)

Non-resident individuals

Industry group

Revenue of households and individuals

Tax deducted

VAT number

Personal income tax number

Total​

(01)

(02)

(03)

(04)

(05)

(06)

(07)

(08)

(09)

(10)

(11)

(12) = (10)+(11)

1











□











2











□











…











□











Total​









I certify that the above declared data is correct and I am legally responsible for the declared data.





TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………..Practice certificate number: ……
.

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and seal (if any)/Electronic signature)



Note:

- Name of e-commerce platform (column 02): Fill in the full name of the organization managing the e-commerce platform.

- Non-resident individual (column 07): Check this box if declaring tax deduction of non-resident individual

- Industry groups (column 08): (01) Goods; (02) Services; (03) Transportation, services associated with goods; (04) Unable to identify goods or services or service types. In case a booth sells goods and services belonging to different industry groups, each industry must be declared on one line.

- Revenue of households and individuals (column 09): Declare revenue generated in the month by each industry group (after deducting revenue from canceled transactions or returned goods).

- VAT number (column 10): Declare the deducted VAT amount arising in the month by each industry group (after deducting deducted VAT of canceled or returned transactions).

- Personal income tax amount (column 11): Declare the deducted personal income tax amount arising in the month by each industry group (after deducting the deducted personal income tax of canceled or returned transactions).



Form No.: 01/BKNT-TMĐT

DETAILED LIST OF TAX AMOUNT PAID BY THE ORGANIZATION MANAGING
THE E-COMMERCE PLATFORM

(Attached with documents for payment to the state budget:
No. ……., reference number ……., date …/…/…)

[01] Date of establishment: …/…/…
[02] Number of submissions:....

[03] Name of the organization managing the e-commerce platform: …………………………………

[04] Tax code to be deducted and paid on behalf of: …………………………………………………………….

[05] Declaration number/Decision number/Notification number/File identification code (ID):……………………..

[06] Tax period/Decision date/Notification date: ……………………………………………….

[07] Tax agent name (if any): …………………………………………………………………….

[08] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

[09] Tax agency contract: No: …………………………………………Date:………………….

Currency unit : ...

STT

Tax code /Personal identification number (CCCD number)/Passport number/Identification document number of household, individual

Household name /Personal name

Contents of payments to the State budget
( Sub-item)

Amount paid to the State budget

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

1









2









…











Total​









TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………….Practice certificate number: …
..

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and
seal (if any)/Electronic signature)

Note:

1. For each document submitted to the State budget, the taxpayer shall prepare a corresponding detailed list.

2. The total amount paid to the State budget in column (5) on this List must be equal to the total amount paid by the e-commerce platform management organization on the State budget payment voucher.



Form No.: 02/CNKD-TMĐT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

TAX DECLARATION FOR HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS
WITH BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

☐ Households and individuals with business activities on e-commerce platforms must declare monthly.

☐ Households and individuals with irregular business activities on e-commerce platforms must declare each time they occur.

[01] Tax calculation period: [01a] Month ...year……..

[01b] Date of occurrence: Date ... month.... year....

[02] First time: ☐              [03] Additional time:....

[04] Taxpayer : …………………………………………………………………………….

[05] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

[06] Tax agent name (if any): ……………………………………………………………………

[07] Tax code: …………………………………………………………………………………..

[08] Tax agency contract: No: ………………………………………… Date:…………………

[09] Name of organization/individual declaring on behalf (if any): ………………………………………………

[10] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

A. DECLARATION OF VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT), PERSONAL INCOME TAX (PIT)

Currency : Vietnamese Dong

STT

Industry group

Index code

VAT collection

Personal income tax

Revenue

Tax number

Revenue

Tax number

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

1

Supply of goods

[11]









2

Service Provider

[12]









3

Transport , services associated with goods

[13]









4

Other business activities

[14]











Total :

[15]









B. DECLARATION OF SPECIAL CONSUMPTION TAX (SCT)

Currency : Vietnamese Dong

STT

Goods and services subject to special consumption tax

Index code

Unit of measure

Revenue subject to special consumption tax

Tax rate

Tax number

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)=(5)*(6)

1

Goods and services A

[16a]









2

Goods and services B

[16b]









3

………………….













Total :

[16]









I certify that the above declared data is correct and I am legally responsible for the declared data.





TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………….Practice certificate number: …
..

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and seal (if any)/ Electronic
signature )



Form No.: 03/CNNN-TMĐT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

TAX DECLARATION FOR NON-RESIDENT INDIVIDUALS DOING BUSINESS
ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

[01] Tax calculation period: Date…..month…..year………..

[02] First time: ☐          [03] Additional time:....

[04] Taxpayer : ………………………………………………………………………………

[05] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

[06] Information in case the taxpayer has not been granted a tax code:

[06.1] Passport number/ Travel document number/ Border ID number/ Other personal identification number: …………….Date of issue: …………………….Place of issue……………….

[06.2] Date of birth: ………………………………………………………………………

[06.3] Address : …………………………………………………………………………………………

[06.4] Nationality : ………………………………………………………………………………………

[07] Email: ……………………………………………………………………………………………..

[08] Tax agent name (if any): ………………………………………………………………………..

[09] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………….

[10] Tax agency contract: No: …………………………………………Date:…………………….

[11] Name of the organization declaring on behalf of (if any): …………………………………………………………..

[12] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………….

DECLARATION OF VALUE ADDED TAX (VAT), PERSONAL INCOME TAX (PIT)

Currency unit : ...

STT

Industry group

Index code

VAT collection

Personal income tax

Revenue

Tax number

Revenue

Tax number

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

1

Supply of goods

[13]









2

Service Provider

[14]









3

Transport , services associated with goods

[15]









4

Other business activities

[16]











Total :

[17]









I certify that the above declared data is correct and I am legally responsible for the declared data.





TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………….Practice certificate number: …
..

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and seal (if any)/ Electronic
signature )



Form No.: 01/CTKT-TMĐT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

TAX DEDUCTION DOCUMENTS FOR HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS WITH
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

Year: ...



Model number:
Symbol :
Number :

I. TAX DEDUCTION ORGANIZATION INFORMATION

[01] Name of the organization managing the e-commerce platform: ……………………………….

[02] Tax code for deduction and payment on behalf: ……………………………………………………………

[03] Address : ………………………………………………………………………………………

[04] Phone : ……………………………………………………………………………………

II. INFORMATION ON STORE OR HOUSEHOLD, INDIVIDUAL

[05] Store name/ Account name on e-commerce platform:……………………..

[06] Household name/Full name: …………………………………………………………………

[07] Tax code: …………………………………………………………………………………

[08] Nationality : ……………………………………………………………………………………

[09] Contact address or phone number: ……………………………………………………………

[10] ID card number or identification document number (In case there is no tax code): ……………

III. INFORMATION ON TAX DEDUCTED

Currency unit : …

STT

Industry group

Index code

Revenue of households and individuals

Tax deducted

VAT collection

Personal income tax

Total​

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7) = (5) + (6)

1

Supply of goods

[11]









2

Service Provider

[12]









3

Transport , services associated with goods

[13]









4

Unable to identify goods or services or type of services

[14]











Total :

[15]













….., date... month... year .....
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE ORGANIZATION DEDUCTING AND PAYING ON BEHALF OF
( Electronic signature, digital signature)



Form No.: 03/CNKD-TMĐT

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

DOCUMENT REQUESTING TAX REFUND OF HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS
WITH BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

(Applicable to households and individuals eligible for tax refund)

[01] Tax calculation period: Year ............

[02] First time: ☐              [03] Additional time:....

[03] Taxpayer : ………………………………………………………………………………

[04] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

[05] Tax agent name (if any): …………………………………………………………………….

[06] Tax code: …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

[07] Tax agency contract: No: ………………………………Date: ……………………………

[08] Name of organization/individual declaring on behalf (if any): ……………………………………………..

[09] Tax code: ……………………………………………………………………………………

I. TOTAL REVENUE FROM ALL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OF HOUSEHOLDS AND INDIVIDUALS

Currency : Vietnamese Dong

STT

Industry group

Index code

Total annual revenue of households and individuals

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

1

Distribution and supply of goods

[10]



2

Services , construction without materials

[11]



3

Production , transportation, services associated with goods, construction with contracted materials

[12]



4

Other business activities

[13]





Total :

[14]



II. TAX AMOUNT PAID TO THE STATE BUDGET FOR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ON E-COMMERCE PLATFORMS

[15] Amount of money directly paid by taxpayers to the State budget:

[15.1] VAT :…………………………

[15.2] Personal income tax:…………………………

[16] Amount deducted and paid by the organization:

[16.1] VAT :…………………………

[16.2] Personal income tax: …………………………

[17] Total amount paid to the State budget:

[17.1] VAT: (= [15.1] + [16.1])………………….

[17.2] Personal income tax: (= [15.2] + [16.2]) …………………………

[17.3] Total: (= [17.1] + [17.2]) …………………………

III. PROPOSAL FOR HANDLING OF OVERPAYMENT

[18] Refund request:

[18.1] VAT : …………………………

[18.2] Personal income tax: …………………………

[18.3] Total: …………………………

Refund form :

☐ Transfer : Account holder name……………………………………

Account number: …………………………At Bank/State Treasury: …………………………

☐ Cash :

Name of payee:

ID card number /Personal identification number/Passport number: ………………….Date of issue:……./…../……Place of issue:…………………

Place to receive tax refund: State Treasury

[19] Proposal to offset tax obligations payable in other periods:

[19.1] VAT : …………………………

[19.2] Personal income tax: …………………………

[19.3] Total: …………………………..

Information of taxpayers requesting to offset overpaid amount with debt, arising revenue or requesting to refund and offset state budget revenue:

Currency : Vietnamese Dong

STT

Information on debt /receipt arising

The remaining amount to be paid is to be offset against the overpaid amount.

Amount remaining after offset

Tax code

Taxpayer Name

Accounts Payable Identification Number (ID) (
if applicable)

Debt /arising content

Chapter

Subsection​

Name of the tax authority managing the revenue

Administrative area

Submission deadline

Amount remaining to be paid

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)= (11)-(12)















































































I certify that the above declared data is correct and I am legally responsible for the declared data.





TAX AGENT STAFF Full name:…………………….Practice certificate number: …
..

….., date... month... year .....
TAXPAYER or LEGAL
REPRESENTATIVE OF TAXPAYER
( Signature, full name; position and seal (if any)/ Electronic
signature )