MINISTRY OF FINANCE
--------

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

**Number: 25/2018/TT-BTC**

Hanoi, March 16, 2018



CIRCULAR

GUIDELINES FOR DECREE NO. 146/2017/ND-CP DATED DECEMBER 15, 2017 OF THE GOVERNMENT AND AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS TO A NUMBER OF ARTICLES OF CIRCULAR NO. 78/2014/TT-BTC DATED JUNE 18, 2014 OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE, CIRCULAR NO. 111/2013/TT-BTC DATED AUGUST 15, 2013 OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE

*Pursuant to the Securities Law No. 70/2006/QH11 dated June 29, 2006 and Law No. 62/2010/QH12 amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Securities Law dated November 24, 2010;*

*Pursuant to the Law on Personal Income Tax No. 04/2007/QH12 dated November 21, 2007 and the Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Personal Income Tax No. 26/2012/QH13 dated November 22, 2012;*

*Pursuant to the Law on Enterprises No. 68/2014/QH13 dated November 26, 2014;*

*Pursuant to the Law amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Laws on Tax No. 71/2014/QH13 dated November 26, 2014;*

*Pursuant to Law No. 106/2016/QH13 dated April 6, 2016 amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Special Consumption Tax and the Law on Tax Administration;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 65/2013/ND-CP dated June 27, 2013 of the Government detailing a number of Articles of the Law on Personal Income Tax and the Law amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Law on Personal Income Tax ;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 12/2015/ND-CP dated February 12, 2015 of the Government detailing the implementation of the Law amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Laws on taxes and amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Decrees on taxes;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 100/2016/ND-CP dated July 1, 2016 of the Government detailing the implementation of the Law amending and supplementing a number of Articles of the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Special Consumption Tax and the Law on Tax Administration ;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 146/2017/ND-CP dated December 15, 2017 of the Government amending and supplementing a number of Articles of Decree No. 100/2016/ND-CP dated July 1, 2016 and Decree No. 12/2015/ND-CP dated February 12, 2015 of the Government;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 87/2017/ND-CP dated July 26, 2017 of the Government stipulating the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance;*

*At the request of the Director General of the General Department of Taxation,*

*The Minister of Finance issued a Circular guiding Decree No. 146/2017/ND-CP dated December 15, 2017 of the Government and amending and supplementing a number of Articles of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC dated June 18, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance, Circular No. 111/2013/TT-BTC dated August 15, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance as follows:*


### Article 1. Amending and supplementing Clause 23, Article 4 of Circular No. 219/2013/TT-BTC dated December 31, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance (amended and supplemented by Circular No. 130/2016/TT-BTC dated August 12, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance) as follows:

“23. Export products are resources and minerals that have not been processed into other products.

Exported products are goods directly processed from main raw materials such as resources and minerals with the total value of resources and minerals plus energy costs accounting for 51% or more of the product's production cost, except for some cases as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 1 of Decree No. 146/2017/ND-CP .

   - Resources and minerals are resources and minerals of domestic origin including: Metallic minerals; non-metallic minerals; crude oil; natural gas; coal gas.

   - Determining the proportion of value of resources, minerals and energy costs on cost price is done according to the formula:

Proportion of value of resources, minerals and energy costs to product production cost

=



Value of resources, minerals + energy costs

x 100%



Total cost of product manufacturing

In there:

The value of resources and minerals put into processing is determined as follows: For directly exploited resources and minerals, it is the direct and indirect cost of exploiting the resources and minerals, excluding the cost of transporting the resources and minerals from the mining site to the processing site; for resources and minerals purchased for further processing, it is the actual purchase price, excluding the cost of transporting the resources and minerals from the purchasing site to the processing site.

Energy costs include : fuel, electricity, heat energy .

The value of resources, minerals and energy costs are determined according to the accounting book value in accordance with the Product Costing Summary Table.

The cost of production of a product includes: direct material costs, direct labor costs and general manufacturing costs. Indirect costs such as selling costs, administrative costs, financial costs and other costs are not included in the cost of production of a product.

The ratio of the value of resources, minerals and energy costs to the cost of production of products is determined based on the previous year's settlement and this ratio is applied stably in the year of export. In the case of the first year of product export, the ratio of the value of resources, minerals and energy costs to the cost of production of products is determined according to the investment plan and this ratio is applied stably in the year of export; in the case of no investment plan, the ratio of the value of resources, minerals and energy costs to the cost of production of products is determined based on the actual export products.

   - In case an enterprise does not export but sells to another enterprise for export, the enterprise purchasing these goods for export must declare VAT as if the same type of product was directly exported by the manufacturing enterprise.

   - Tax Departments of provinces and cities shall coordinate with specialized state management agencies in the area according to the functions and tasks of each agency to guide enterprises engaged in production and business activities of exporting products from resources and minerals based on product characteristics and product production processes to determine whether exported products are resources and minerals that have been processed or not processed into other products to make declarations according to regulations.

In case an enterprise declares a product that has been processed into another product but the product's production process is not sufficient to determine it as another product, the Tax Department is responsible for reporting to the General Department of Taxation to coordinate with the Ministries and specialized State management agencies based on the enterprise's export product production process to determine whether the exported product is a resource or mineral that has not been processed into another product or has been processed into another product according to the provisions of law.


### Article 2. Amending and supplementing Clause 4, Article 18 of Circular No. 219/2013/TT-BTC dated December 31, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance (amended and supplemented by Circular No. 130/2016/TT-BTC dated August 12, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance) as follows:

“4. Tax refund for exported goods and services

   - Business establishments that have exported goods and services in a month (in case of monthly declaration) or in a quarter (in case of quarterly declaration) including the following cases: Imported goods then exported to duty-free zones; imported goods then exported abroad, with input value-added tax not yet deducted of VND 300 million or more, shall be entitled to a monthly or quarterly VAT refund; in case the input value-added tax not yet deducted in a month or quarter is less than VND 300 million, it shall be deducted in the following month or quarter.

In a month/quarter, if a business has both exported goods and services and domestically consumed goods and services, it must separately account for the input VAT used for the production and business of exported goods and services. In case it cannot be separately accounted for, the input VAT of exported goods and services shall be determined based on the ratio between the revenue of exported goods and services and the total revenue of goods and services of the VAT declaration periods from the tax declaration period following the previous tax refund period to the current tax refund request period.

The input VAT amount of exported goods and services (including the input VAT amount that can be accounted for separately and the input VAT amount allocated according to the above rate) if after offsetting with the VAT amount payable on domestically consumed goods and services, the remaining amount is 300 million VND or more, the business establishment will be refunded tax on exported goods and services. The VAT amount refunded on exported goods and services shall not exceed the revenue of exported goods and services multiplied (x) by 10%.

The subjects eligible for tax refund in some export cases are as follows: In the case of export entrustment, it is the establishment with goods entrusted for export; in the case of forwarding processing, it is the establishment that signs an export processing contract with the foreign party; in the case of goods exported to carry out construction works abroad, it is the enterprise with goods and materials exported to carry out construction works abroad; in the case of on-site export, it is the business establishment with on-site export goods.

   - Business establishments are not entitled to a VAT refund in the following cases : Imported goods are then exported but the exported goods are not exported at the customs operation area according to the provisions of the law on customs; exported goods are not exported at the customs operation area according to the provisions of the law on customs.

   - Tax authorities shall carry out pre-refund and post-inspection for taxpayers producing export goods who have not been prosecuted for smuggling, illegal transportation of goods across borders, tax evasion, tax fraud, or trade fraud for two consecutive years; taxpayers are not high-risk subjects according to the provisions of the Law on Tax Administration and its implementing documents .


### Article 3. Amend and supplement section e, point 2.2, section b, point 2.6, point 2.11 and point 2.30, Clause 2, Article 6 of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC dated June 18, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance (amended and supplemented in Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance) as follows:

1. Supplement section e, point 2.2, Clause 2, Article 6, Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC (amended and supplemented in Article 4, Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance):

“ In case an enterprise transfers a portion of its capital or transfers the entire enterprise to another enterprise in accordance with the provisions of law, if there is a transfer of assets, the transferee enterprise is only allowed to deduct depreciation of fixed assets from deductible expenses for transferred assets that meet the conditions for depreciation according to the remaining value in the accounting books of the transferring enterprise.”.

2. Amend the first paragraph at Section b, Point 2.6, Clause 2, Article 6 of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC (amended and supplemented in Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance):

“b) Salaries and bonuses for employees whose conditions and levels of entitlement are not specifically stated in one of the following documents: Labor contract; Collective labor agreement; Financial regulations of the Company, Corporation, Group; Bonus regulations prescribed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, General Director, Director according to the financial regulations of the Company, Corporation.”.

3. Amend and supplement Point 2.11 Clause 2 Article 6 Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC (amended and supplemented in Article 4 Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC dated June 22, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance):

“2.11. The portion of expenditure exceeding VND 3 million/month /person is used to: Contribute to voluntary pension funds, purchase voluntary pension insurance, and life insurance for employees; The portion exceeding the limits prescribed by law on social insurance and health insurance is used to contribute to social security funds (social insurance, compulsory supplementary pension insurance), health insurance funds, and unemployment insurance funds for employees.

The expenses for voluntary pension funds, social security funds, voluntary pension insurance, and life insurance for employees are included in deductible expenses. In addition to not exceeding the level prescribed in this point, the conditions for enjoyment and the level of enjoyment must be specifically recorded in one of the following documents: Labor contract; Collective labor agreement; Financial regulations of the Company, Corporation, Group; Bonus regulations prescribed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, General Director, Director according to the financial regulations of the Company, Corporation.

Enterprises are not allowed to include in expenses the above-mentioned Voluntary Program Expenses if they do not fully fulfill their obligations regarding compulsory insurance for employees (including cases of debt of compulsory insurance premiums).

4. Amend the first paragraph of the fifth bullet point at point 2.30, Clause 2, Article 6 of Circular No. 78/2014/TT-BTC (amended and supplemented in Article 4 of Circular No. 96/2015/TT-BTC ):

“ - Welfare expenses directly paid to employees such as: expenses for funerals and weddings of the employee and his/her family; vacation expenses, treatment support expenses; expenses to support additional learning at training facilities; expenses to support employees' families affected by natural disasters, war, accidents, and illnesses; expenses to reward employees' children with good academic achievements; expenses to support travel expenses on holidays and Tet for employees; expenses for accident insurance, health insurance, and other voluntary insurance for employees ( except for expenses for purchasing life insurance for employees, voluntary retirement insurance for employees as guided in Point 2.11 of this Article) and other welfare expenses. The total amount of welfare expenses mentioned above shall not exceed 01 month's average actual salary in the tax year of the enterprise.”


### Article 4. Amending and supplementing Point b Clause 4 Article 2 Circular No. 111/2013/TT-BTC dated August 15, 2013 of the Ministry of Finance as follows:

“b. Income from securities transfer, including: income from transfer of shares, stock purchase rights, bonds, treasury bills, fund certificates and other types of securities as prescribed in Clause 1, Article 6 of the Securities Law . Income from transfer of shares of individuals in joint stock companies as prescribed in Clause 2, Article 6 of the Securities Law and Article 120 of the Enterprise Law .”


### Article 5. Effective date

1. This Circular takes effect from May 1, 2018.

2. Cases arising from February 1, 2018, subject to the provisions of Decree 146/2017/ND-CP, shall be implemented according to the provisions of Decree 146/2017/ND-CP and the instructions in Article 1, Article 2 , Clauses 2, 3, 4, Article 3 of this Circular .

3. In the course of implementation, if there are any problems, organizations and individuals are requested to promptly report to the Ministry of Finance for research and resolution./.





Recipients:
- Central Office and Party Committees;
- National Assembly Office;
- Office of the President; - Office of
the General Secretary;
- Supreme People's Procuracy ;
- Supreme People's Court ; -
State Audit ;
- Ministries, ministerial-level agencies,
government agencies,
- Central agencies of mass organizations;
- People's Councils, People's Committees, Departments of Finance, Tax Departments, State Treasuries of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Official Gazette;
- Department of Document Inspection (Ministry of Justice);
- Government website;
- Ministry of Finance website; General Department of Taxation website;
- Units under the Ministry of Finance;
- Archives: VT, TCT (VT, CS).