MINISTRY OF FINANCE
-------

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
---------------

**Number: 68/2025/TT-BTC**

Hanoi, July 1, 2025



CIRCULAR

ISSUING FORMS USED IN BUSINESS REGISTRATION AND HOUSEHOLD BUSINESS REGISTRATION

*Pursuant to the Law on Enterprises dated June 17, 2020; Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Enterprises dated June 17, 2025;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 168/2025/ND-CP dated June 30, 2025 of the Government on business registration;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 29/2025/ND-CP dated February 24, 2025 of the Government stipulating the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance;*

*Pursuant to Decree No. 166/2025/ND-CP dated June 30, 2025 of the Government amending and supplementing a number of articles of Decree No. 29/2025/ND-CP dated February 24, 2025 of the Government stipulating the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance;*

*At the request of the Director of the Department of Private Enterprise and Collective Economic Development;*

*The Minister of Finance issued a Circular promulgating forms used in business registration and household business registration.*


### Article 1. Scope of regulation and applicable subjects

1. This Circular promulgates forms used in business registration and business household registration.

2. This Circular applies to the subjects specified in Article 2 of Decree No. 168/2025/ND-CP dated June 30, 2025 of the Government on business registration.


### Article 2. Forms used in business registration and household business registration

1. The form used in business registration is specified in Appendix I issued with this Circular.

2. The form used in business household registration is specified in Appendix II issued with this Circular.


### Article 3. Entry into force

1. This Circular takes effect from July 1, 2025.

2. Abolish the form prescribed in Appendix I issued with Circular No. 43/2025/TT-BTC dated June 17, 2025 of the Minister of Finance promulgating the form used in the field of state management of business households, cooperatives, cooperative unions, and cooperative unions when organizing 2-level local government.

3. The following circulars cease to be effective from the effective date of this Circular:

   - Circular No. 01/2021/TT-BKHĐT dated March 16, 2021 of the Minister of Planning and Investment guiding on business registration;

   - Circular No. 02/2023/TT-BKHĐT dated April 18, 2023 of the Minister of Planning and Investment amending and supplementing a number of articles of Circular No. 01/2021/TT-BKHĐT dated March 16, 2021 guiding on business registration.

4. Provincial-level business registration agencies, commune-level business registration agencies, enterprises, business households and organizations and individuals related to business registration and business household registration are responsible for implementing this Circular./.




Recipients:
- Ethnic Council, Economic - Financial Committee of the National Assembly;
- Ministries, ministerial-level agencies; agencies under the Government;
- Supreme People's Court, Supreme People's Procuracy;
- People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Tax Department;
- Department of Document Inspection and Administrative Violation Handling Management - Ministry of Justice;
- Department of Finance of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Regional Tax Departments;
- Official Gazette (for posting);
- National database of laws ( for posting) ;
- Government Electronic Information Portal (for posting);
- Ministry of Finance Electronic Information Portal (for posting);
- Departments, Divisions, Institutes under the Ministry of Finance;
- File: VT, DNTN (DKKD).

KT. MINISTER
DEPUTY MINISTER




Nguyen Duc Tam



APPENDIX I

FORMS USED IN BUSINESS REGISTRATION (Attached to Circular No. 68/2025/TT-BTC dated July 1, 2025 of the Minister of Finance)

Sample No. 1

Application for business registration - Private enterprise

Sample 2

Application for business registration - Single-member limited liability company

Sample 3

Application for business registration - Limited liability company with two or more members

Form No. 4

Application for business registration - Joint Stock Company

Form No. 5

Application for business registration - Partnership

Form No. 6

List of members of a limited liability company with two or more members

Form No. 7

List of founding shareholders of joint stock companies

Form No. 8

List of shareholders who are foreign investors

Form No. 9

List of members of the partnership

Form No. 10

List of beneficial owners of the business

Form No. 11

Declare information to identify beneficial owners of the business

Form No. 12

Application for registration of changes to the contents of the Business Registration Certificate/Notification of changes to the contents of business registration

(Used in case of registering changes to the contents of the Business Registration Certificate/notifying changes to business registration contents; Supplementing, updating business registration information; Requesting correction of business registration information)

Form No. 13

Application for registration of change of legal representative

Form No. 14

Application for registration of change of private enterprise owner

Form No. 15

Application for registration of change of owner of one-member LLC

Form No. 16

Notice of private enterprise leasing

Form No. 17

Application for registration of branch/representative office/Notification of establishment of business location

Form No. 18

Notice of establishment of branch/representative office abroad

Form No. 19

Application for registration of change in registration content of branch/representative office/business location

Form No. 20

Notice of response to the results of reviewing business registration information and legal status of the enterprise

Form No. 21

Application for changing to a Certificate of Business Registration for enterprises granted a Certificate of Business Registration or a Certificate of Business Registration and Tax Registration

Form No. 22

Application for supplementing and updating business registration information for businesses operating under an Investment License, Investment Certificate (also a Business Registration Certificate) or other documents of equivalent legal value

Form No. 23

Application for supplementing and updating registration information for branches/representative offices/business locations operating under Investment Licenses or Investment Certificates (also Business Registration Certificates) or other documents of equivalent legal value or Certificates of registration of branch/representative office operations issued by the Investment Registration Authority

Form No. 24

Application for supplementing and updating business registration information for businesses operating under a License to establish and operate securities business

Form No. 25

Application for supplementing and updating registration information for branches/representative offices/business locations of enterprises operating under the License for establishment and operation of securities business/Branch of foreign securities company/foreign fund management company in Vietnam

Form No. 26

Application for re-issuance of Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of Change in Business Registration Content/Certificate of Registration of Branch/Representative Office/Certificate of Registration of Business Location/Certificate of Change in Registration of Branch/Representative Office/Business Location

Form No. 27

Notice of temporary suspension of business/resumption of business before the announced deadline of the enterprise/branch/business location/of temporary suspension of operations/resumption of operations before the announced deadline of the representative office

Form No. 28

Notice of termination of branch/representative office/business location

Form No. 29

Notice of termination of operations of overseas branches/representative offices

Form No. 30

Notice of business dissolution

Form No. 31

Notice of cancellation of Resolution/Decision to dissolve the enterprise

Form No. 32

Application for publication of business registration content

Form No. 33

Application to stop business registration procedures

Form No. 34

Commitment to social and environmental goals

Form No. 35

Notice of change in content of Commitment to implement social and environmental goals

Form No. 36

Notice of termination of Commitment to implement social and environmental goals

Form No. 37

Certificate of Business Registration - Private Enterprise

Form No. 38

Certificate of Business Registration - Single Member Limited Liability Company

Form No. 39

Certificate of Business Registration - Limited Liability Company with two or more members

Form No. 40

Certificate of Business Registration - Joint Stock Company

Form No. 41

Certificate of Business Registration - Partnership

Form No. 42

Certificate of registration of branch/representative office operations

Form No. 43

Certificate of business location registration

Form No. 44

Certificate of change of business registration content

Form No. 45

Certificate of change of registration content of branch/representative office/business location

Form No. 46

Certificate of…/Certificate of…

(Used in case of re-issuance of Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of Change in Business Registration Content/Certificate of Registration of Branch/Representative Office/Certificate of Business Location Registration/Certificate of Change in Registration of Branch/Representative Office/Business Location due to loss, fire, tear, damage or destruction in other forms)

Form No. 47

Notice to the direct tax authority

Form No. 48

Notice of amendment and supplementation of business registration dossier

Form No. 49

Notice of suspension/refusal to suspend business registration procedures

Form No. 50

Notice requiring enterprises to report on compliance with the provisions of the Law on Enterprises

Form No. 51

Notice of correction of information in the Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of change of business registration content/Certificate of registration of branch/representative office activities/Certificate of registration of business location/Certificate of change of registration of branch/representative office activities

Form No. 52

Notice of review of business registration information and legal status of the enterprise

Form No. 53

Notice requesting enterprises to temporarily suspend business in conditional investment and business sectors

Form No. 54

Certificate of business notification of temporary suspension of business

Form No. 55

Certificate of temporary suspension of business by branch/business location/Regarding temporary suspension of operations by representative office

Form No. 56

Certificate of business notification of resumption of business before the notified deadline

Form No. 57

Certificate of branch/business location announcing the resumption of business before the announced deadline/Regarding the representative office announcing the resumption of operations before the announced deadline

Form No. 58

Certificate of private enterprise lease

Form No. 59

Notice of request to change the name of the enterprise/branch/representative office/business location of the enterprise due to infringement of industrial property rights

Form No. 60

Notice of business violation subject to revocation

Form No. 61

Decision on revocation of Business Registration Certificate

Form No. 62

Decision on cancellation of decision to revoke and restore Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of registration of branch and representative office of enterprise/Certificate of registration of business location

Form No. 63

Decision on revocation of Certificate of registration of branch and representative office operations, Certificate of registration of business location

Form No. 64

Decision on revocation of Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of registration of branch, representative office activities, Certificate of registration of business location of change registration/Certificate of confirmation of change of business registration content, registration of branch, representative office, business location activities

Form No. 65

Decision on revocation of Certificate of notification of temporary suspension of business, temporary suspension of operations, resumption of business, resumption of operations/Notification of enterprise undergoing dissolution procedures, branch, representative office, business location undergoing termination procedures/Notification of dissolution of enterprise, branch, representative office, business location terminating operations

Form No. 66

Notice of branch/representative office/business location undergoing procedures to terminate operations

Form No. 67

Notice of termination of branch/representative office/business location

Form No. 68

Notice of business dissolution procedures

Form No. 69

Notice of business dissolution/cessation of existence

Form No. 70

Receipt of application and appointment to return results of application for business registration/branch/representative office/business location

Form No. 71

Receipt of application and appointment to return results of application for business registration/branch/representative office/business location via electronic information network

Form No. 72

Announcement of business registration content

Form No. 73

Announcement of changes in business registration contents

Form No. 74

Announcement of business registration content

(Applicable in cases of announcing business registration contents other than the contents of Form No. 72 and 73 )

Form No. 75

Notice on restoration of Business Registration Certificate/Certificate of registration of branch, representative office, Certificate of registration of business location

Form No. 76

Notice of issuance of business registration

Form No. 77

Notice of invalidity of the Certificate of Business Registration/Certificate of Registration of Branch, Representative Office, Certificate of Registration of Business Location/Certificate of Confirmation of Change of Business Registration Content, Registration of Branch, Representative Office, Business Location

Form No. 78

Application for providing business registration information

Form No. 79

Request from the Business Registration Authority to request the enterprise to change the enterprise name, branch name, representative office, business location

Form No. 80

Request for revocation of documents due to declaration in business registration dossier being fake



APPENDIX II

FORM USED IN BUSINESS HOUSEHOLD REGISTRATION (Attached to Circular No. 68/2025/TT-BTC dated July 1, 2025 of the Minister of Finance)

Sample No. 1

Application for business registration

Sample 2

Application for registration of changes to business registration contents

Sample 3

Application for temporary suspension of business/continuation of business before the registered term of the business household

Form No. 4

Notice of termination of business activities

Form No. 5

Application for re-issuance of Certificate of Business Registration

Form No. 6

Application to stop business registration procedures

Form No. 7

Certificate of business registration

Form No. 8

Notice to the tax authority directly managing the business household

Form No. 9

Certificate of business registration ( Used in case of re-issuance due to loss, fire, tear, damage or destruction in other forms )

Form No. 10

Notice of amendment and supplementation of business registration dossier

Form No. 11

Notice requesting business households to report on compliance with regulations on business households

Form No. 12

Notice of violation of business households subject to revocation of Business Registration Certificate

Form No. 13

Notice of termination of business activities

Form No. 14

Decision on revocation of Certificate of Business Registration

Form No. 15

Decision on revocation of Business Registration Certificate of change registration

Form No. 16

Decision on cancellation of decision to revoke and restore Certificate of Business Registration

Form No. 17

Receipt of application and appointment to return results of business registration application

Form No. 18

Receipt of application and appointment to return results of application for business registration via electronic information network

Form No. 19

Notice requesting business households to temporarily suspend business in conditional investment and business lines

Form No. 20

Certificate of business household registration for temporary suspension of business/continuation of business before the registered deadline

Form No. 21

Notice of invalidity of Business Registration Certificate

Form No. 22

Notice requiring business households to register changes to members who are not entitled to establish business households

Form No. 23

Notice of processing of business registration dossiers or issuance of notices and decisions that are not in accordance with regulations on dossiers, procedures and processes

Form No. 24

Notice on restoration of Business Registration Certificate

Form No. 25

Notice of correction of content on the Certificate of Business Registration

Form No. 26

Notice of suspension/refusal to suspend business registration procedures

Form No. 27

Notice of business household in the process of terminating operations

Form No. 28

Notice on reviewing business registration information of business households



APPENDIX III

LIST OF LETTERS AND SYMBOLS USED IN NAMING ENTERPRISES/HOUSEHOLD BUSINESSES/DEPENDENT UNITS OF ENTERPRISES/HOUSEHOLD BUSINESSES
(Attached to Circular No. 68/2025/TT-BTC dated July 1, 2025 of the Minister of Finance)

1. Alphabetical list

Capital letters

Lowercase letters

Capital letters

Lowercase letters

A

a

N

n

Eat

a

O

o

Â

-

EH

Hey

B

b

UMBRELLA

Umbrella

C

c

P

p

D

d

Q

q

D

D

R

r

E

e

S

S

HALLO

hallo

T

t

F

f

U

u

G

g

Uh

Uh

H

h

V

v

I

i

W

w

J

j

X

x

K

k

Y

y

L

l

Z

z

M

m





2. List of symbols

%

&

,

(

)

.

-

+

:

\

/

;

“

"

'

'

*





This document has attachments, you must download the document to view the full content.
Download

