MINISTRY OF FINANCE
__________
Number: 99/2025/TT-BTC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
______________________
Hanoi, October 27, 2025
CIRCULAR

Guide to Enterprise Accounting Regime

__________________

Pursuant to the Law on Accounting dated November 20, 2015;

Pursuant to the Law amending and supplementing a number of articles of the Law on Securities, the Law on Accounting, the Law on Independent Auditing, the Law on State Budget, the Law on Management and Use of Public Assets, the Law on Tax Administration, the Law on Personal Income Tax, the Law on National Reserves, the Law on Handling of Administrative Violations dated November 29, 2024;

Pursuant to Decree No. 29/2025/ND-CP dated February 24, 2025 of the Government stipulating the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance;

Pursuant to Decree No. 166/2025/ND-CP dated June 30, 2025 of the Government on amending and supplementing a number of articles of Decree No. 29/2025/ND-CP dated February 24, 2025 of the Government stipulating the functions, tasks, powers and organizational structure of the Ministry of Finance;

At the request of the Director of the Department of Accounting and Auditing Management and Supervision;

The Minister of Finance issued a Circular guiding the Enterprise Accounting Regime.

Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Scope of regulation
This Circular provides guidance on accounting documents, accounting accounts, accounting bookkeeping, preparation and presentation of financial statements of enterprises. Determination of tax obligations of enterprises to the State Budget is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law on tax.
Article 2. Subjects of application
1. This Circular provides accounting guidance applicable to enterprises in all fields and economic sectors.
2. Credit institutions and foreign bank branches shall implement accounting regimes or legal documents on accounting according to the guidance of the State Bank of Vietnam.
Article 3. Internal management and control
1. The creation, implementation, management and control of economic transactions arising from enterprises must comply with the provisions of law and relevant policies and mechanisms.
2. Enterprises are responsible for developing their own internal governance regulations (or equivalent documents) and organizing internal controls to clearly define the rights, obligations and responsibilities of departments and individuals involved in creating, implementing, managing and controlling economic transactions arising at the enterprise, ensuring compliance with the provisions of the law on enterprises and relevant laws.
Article 4. Currency in accounting
1. “Accounting currency unit” is Vietnamese Dong (national symbol is “đ”; international symbol is “VND”) used for accounting entries, preparation and presentation of the enterprise’s Financial Statements. In case an enterprise mainly receives and spends in foreign currency, and meets the factors specified in Clauses 2, 3, 4 of this Article, it may choose a foreign currency as the accounting currency unit for accounting entries and shall be responsible for that choice before the law.
2. Enterprises base on the following factors to determine the currency unit in accounting:
a) The currency that primarily affects the selling price of goods and services and is usually the currency used to list the selling price of goods and services and for payment;
b) The currency that primarily affects labor costs, raw material costs, production and other business costs and is often the currency used to pay for those costs.
3. In case, based on the factors in Clause 2 of this Article, the enterprise has not yet determined the accounting currency, the following factors shall also be considered as the basis for determining the accounting currency of the enterprise:
a) Currency used to mobilize financial resources (currency used when issuing debt instruments, equity instruments, etc.);
b) Currency unit regularly obtained from business activities and used for storage.
4. The accounting currency reflects the transactions, events, and conditions related to the business's operations. Once the accounting currency is determined, the business must not change it, unless there is a major change in management and business operations leading to a material change in those transactions, events, and conditions.
Article 5. Changing currency units in accounting
1. Principles when changing the accounting currency
When there is a major change in management and business activities leading to the accounting currency used by the enterprise no longer satisfying the factors stated in Clauses 2, 3, 4, Article 4 of this Circular , the enterprise is allowed to change the accounting currency and this change can only be made at the beginning of a new accounting year.
2. Principles for preparing Financial Statements when changing currency units in accounting
a) In the first accounting period since the change, the enterprise shall convert the balances of items in the accounting books and the Financial Position Statement to the new accounting currency at the average transfer buying and selling exchange rate (the average between the transfer buying and selling exchange rate) of the commercial bank where the enterprise regularly conducts transactions (the commercial bank where the enterprise has a higher frequency or value of transactions than other parties) on the date of change of accounting currency.
b) For comparative information (previous period column) on the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement, the enterprise applies the average transfer exchange rate of the commercial bank where the enterprise regularly conducts transactions of the previous period adjacent to the period of change.
c) Enterprises must present in the Notes to the Financial Statements the reasons for changing the accounting currency and when there are impacts on the Financial Statements due to the change in accounting currency.
Article 6. Accounting work when an enterprise chooses an accounting currency other than Vietnamese Dong
1. The legal financial statements for enterprises to publicly announce and submit to competent authorities in Vietnam are financial statements presented in Vietnamese Dong. Therefore, enterprises must convert financial statements from accounting currency to Vietnamese Dong according to the instructions in Clause 3 of this Article, unless otherwise provided by law.
2. In cases where the law stipulates that the Financial Statements of an enterprise must be audited by an independent auditing organization, the audited Financial Statements are the Financial Statements presented in Vietnamese Dong.
3. Method of converting Financial Statements prepared in foreign currency into Vietnamese Dong
a) When converting Financial Statements prepared in foreign currencies into Vietnamese Dong, enterprises must convert the indicators of the Financial Statements according to the following principles:
- Assets and liabilities are converted into Vietnamese Dong at the average transfer exchange rate of the commercial bank where the enterprise regularly conducts transactions at the end of the accounting period;
- Owner's equity (owner's capital contribution, capital surplus, other capital, bond conversion options) is converted into Vietnamese Dong at the actual transaction exchange rate on the date of capital contribution;
- Differences in revaluation of assets are converted into Vietnamese Dong at the actual transaction exchange rate on the date of evaluation;
- Undistributed profit after tax, funds extracted from undistributed profit after tax arising in each period are converted into Vietnamese Dong by calculating according to the items of the Business Performance Report. The remaining undistributed profit after tax must be converted into Vietnamese Dong at the book exchange rate of the undistributed profit after tax item;
- Items in the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement are converted into Vietnamese Dong at the actual exchange rate at the time of the transaction. In case the average exchange rate of the accounting period is approximately the actual exchange rate at the time of the transaction (the difference does not exceed the spot exchange rate margin as prescribed by the State Bank of Vietnam), the average exchange rate of the accounting period can be applied (if selected).
b) Method of accounting for exchange rate differences due to conversion of Financial Statements prepared in foreign currencies into Vietnamese Dong.
Exchange rate differences arising when converting Financial Statements prepared in foreign currencies into Vietnamese Dong are recorded in the "Exchange rate differences" item in the equity section of the Financial Statement.
c) When converting Financial Statements prepared in foreign currency to Vietnamese Dong, enterprises must clearly present in the Notes to the Financial Statements the impacts arising on the Financial Statements due to the conversion of Financial Statements from foreign currency to Vietnamese Dong.
Article 7. Organization of accounting apparatus and accounting work at units affiliated to enterprises
1. Affiliated unit is a dependent unit according to the provisions of enterprise law.
2. Enterprises are responsible for organizing the accounting apparatus and deciding on accounting work for affiliated units in accordance with the characteristics of production and business activities, management requirements of their units and not contrary to the provisions of law.
3. The organization of the accounting apparatus and accounting work at the enterprise's affiliated units is carried out as follows:
a) Enterprises are entitled to delegate to their affiliated units the right to record the capital that the enterprise provides to its affiliated units as liabilities or equity, to record or not to record revenue and cost of goods when circulating products, goods and services between internal stages without depending on the form of accounting documents (invoices or internal circulation documents) in accordance with the model and requirements for managing the enterprise's production and business activities;
b) Enterprises have the right to delegate to their affiliated units to prepare Financial Statements or not to prepare Financial Statements. However, the Financial Statements of enterprises when submitted to competent authorities or made public as prescribed must include financial information of both the head office and the affiliated units of the enterprise regardless of whether the enterprise delegated or not to its affiliated units to prepare Financial Statements.
Chapter II
ACCOUNTING DOCUMENTS
Article 8. General provisions on accounting documents Accounting documents
of enterprises must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Accounting, documents guiding the Law on Accounting and documents amending, supplementing or replacing them.
Article 9. Accounting document form system
1. Enterprises refer to the accounting voucher system form in Appendix I issued with this Circular to apply.
2. In order to suit the characteristics of production and business activities and management requirements, enterprises are allowed to design additional or amend or supplement accounting voucher forms compared to the guidance forms in Appendix I issued with this Circular. When designing additional or amending or supplementing accounting voucher forms of enterprises, they must ensure compliance with the provisions of Article 16 of the Law on Accounting and must fully, promptly, honestly, transparently, easily checked, controlled and compared with the assets and capital sources of the enterprise.
When designing additional or amending or supplementing accounting voucher forms, enterprises are responsible for promulgating accounting regulations (or equivalent documents) on the amended and supplemented contents to serve as a basis for implementation. The regulations must clearly state the necessity of such amendments and supplements and the responsibility of the enterprise before the law for the amended and supplemented contents.
In case the enterprise does not design additional or modify or supplement the accounting voucher form, it shall apply the accounting voucher system guided in Appendix I issued with this Circular.
3. If an enterprise generates documents that are subject to regulation by other laws, the accounting documents must comply with the provisions of that law.
Article 10. Preparation, signing and control of accounting documents
1. All economic and financial transactions arising in relation to the business activities must have accounting documents prepared. Accounting documents are prepared only once for each economic and financial transaction arising.
2. The preparation and signing of accounting documents shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Accounting, documents guiding the Law on Accounting, instructions in this Circular and amendments, supplements and replacements.
3. The delegation of authority to sign on an enterprise's accounting documents must comply with legal regulations, management requirements, and internal governance regulations to ensure strict control and safety of the enterprise's assets and capital and to determine the responsibilities of relevant individuals.
4. The chief accountant (or the person authorized by the chief accountant) is not allowed to sign "on behalf of" the title of the enterprise's manager or executive on accounting documents, unless otherwise provided by law.
CHAPTER III 
ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTS
Article 11. Accounting account system
1. Enterprises shall apply the accounting system in Appendix II issued with this Circular to serve the purpose of recording accounting for economic transactions arising at the enterprise.
2. In order to conform to the characteristics of production and business activities and management requirements of the unit, the enterprise may amend or supplement the names, numbers, structures and reflection contents of the accounting accounts as guided in Appendix II issued with this Circular. The amendments and supplements must ensure the classification and systematization of arising transactions according to economic content, no duplication of objects, compliance with accounting principles as prescribed and must not change or affect the expenditures and information presented in the Financial Statements.
When amending or supplementing the names, numbers, structures and reflection contents of accounting accounts, the enterprise is responsible for promulgating the Accounting Regulations (or equivalent documents) on the amended and supplemented contents as a basis for implementation. The Regulations must clearly state the necessity of such amendments and supplements and the enterprise's responsibility before the law for the amended and supplemented contents.
In case the enterprise does not modify or supplement the name, number, structure and reflection content of the accounting accounts, it shall apply the accounting account system guided in Appendix II issued with this Circular.
3. This Circular only provides guidance on the content and methods of accounting for some major economic transactions. In case an enterprise has economic transactions that have not been guided by accounting in this Circular, the enterprise shall base on the content and nature of the economic transactions, the provisions of the Law on Accounting, documents guiding the Law on Accounting, Vietnamese Accounting Standards and the guiding principles in this Circular to implement.
CHAPTER IV
ACCOUNTING BOOKS
Article 12. Accounting books
1. The accounting books of an enterprise must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Accounting, documents guiding the Law on Accounting and documents amending, supplementing or replacing them.
2. Enterprises shall refer to the accounting book forms in Appendix III issued with this Circular to apply.
In order to suit the characteristics of production and business activities and management requirements, enterprises may design additional or amend or supplement accounting book forms compared to the guidance forms in Appendix III issued with this Circular. When designing additional or amending or supplementing accounting book forms of enterprises, they must ensure compliance with the provisions in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, Article 24 of the Law on Accounting and must fully, promptly, honestly, transparently, easily checked, controlled, and compared with the assets and capital sources of the enterprise.
When designing additional or amending or supplementing accounting book forms, enterprises are responsible for promulgating accounting regulations (or equivalent documents) on the amended and supplemented contents to serve as a basis for implementation. The regulations must clearly state the necessity of such amendments and supplements and the responsibility of the enterprise before the law for the amended and supplemented contents.
In case the enterprise does not design or amend or supplement the accounting book form, it shall apply the accounting book form guided in Appendix III issued with this Circular.
Article 13. Opening, recording and closing accounting books
1. Opening the books: The accounting books must be opened at the beginning of the accounting year. For newly established enterprises, the accounting books must be opened from the date of establishment.
2. Bookkeeping: Enterprises must base on accounting documents to keep accounting books according to the provisions of the Law on Accounting and documents amending, supplementing or replacing them. Accounting books must be recorded promptly, clearly and completely according to the contents of the books. Information and data recorded in accounting books must be accurate and truthful in accordance with accounting documents.
3. Closing the books: Enterprises must close their accounting books at the end of the accounting period to prepare financial statements and in other cases as prescribed by law.
CHAPTER V 
FINANCIAL REPORTS
Article 14. Purpose of Financial Statements
1. Financial statements are used to provide information on the financial situation, business results and cash flows of an enterprise, meeting the management requirements of business owners, competent authorities and the needs of users of financial statements in making economic decisions. Financial statements must provide information of an enterprise on:
a) Assets;
b) Liabilities;
c) Equity;
d) Revenue, other income, production and business costs and other expenses;
d) Profit, loss and division of business results;
e) Cash flows.
2. In addition to the information in Clause 1 of this Article, enterprises must also provide other information in the "Notes to Financial Statements" to further explain the expenses reflected in the Financial Statements and the accounting policies applied to record economic transactions arising, prepare and present the enterprise's Financial Statements.
Article 15. Financial Statement preparation period
1. Period for preparing annual financial statements: Enterprises must prepare annual financial statements according to the provisions of the Accounting Law.
2. Period for preparing Interim Financial Reports: Interim Financial Reports include Quarterly Financial Reports (including the fourth quarter) and Semi-Annual Financial Reports (6-month Financial Reports).
3. Other Financial Statement preparation period
a) Enterprises prepare Financial Statements according to other accounting periods (for example, monthly Financial Statements,...) as required by law, by the parent company or by the owner.
b) Enterprises that are divided, consolidated, merged, converted into business types, dissolved, or bankrupt must prepare financial statements at the time of division, consolidation, merger, conversion into business types, dissolution, or bankruptcy in accordance with the provisions of law.
Article 16. Subjects and responsibilities for preparing Financial Statements
1. Subjects of financial statements
Enterprises in all fields and economic sectors must prepare full annual financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Appendix IV issued with this Circular. Preparation of interim financial statements and financial statements for other accounting periods shall comply with relevant laws or management requirements of the unit. In cases where, according to relevant laws, enterprises are required to prepare interim financial statements but such laws do not have specific provisions on the type of interim financial statements, enterprises may choose to prepare interim financial statements in full or summary form.
2. Enterprises with affiliated units must consolidate both the financial information of the head office and the affiliated units into the enterprise's Financial Statements on the basis of excluding all internal transactions between the head office and the affiliated units or between the affiliated units with each other. In this case, the head office and the affiliated units of the enterprise are not required to prepare the Financial Statements of their units, unless otherwise required by law.
3. The preparation and presentation of the annual consolidated financial statements and the interim consolidated financial statements shall comply with the provisions of law on consolidated financial statements.
4. The preparation and signing of Financial Statements shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Accounting, documents guiding the Law on Accounting and documents amending, supplementing or replacing them. In case an enterprise hires an accounting service business unit to perform the service of preparing and presenting Financial Statements, or the service of acting as chief accountant, the section of the preparer and chief accountant on the Financial Statement of the enterprise must clearly state the number of the practitioner's Accounting Service Practice License and the name of the accounting service provider as prescribed.
Article 17. Enterprise Financial Reporting System
1. The Financial Reporting System includes:
- Financial situation report;
- Business performance report;
- Cash flow report;
- Notes to the Financial Statements;
2. Annual financial report:
a) Annual financial statements for enterprises meeting the going concern assumption, including:
- Financial status report

- Business performance report

- Cash flow statement

- Notes to the Financial Statements

Form No. B 01 - DN

Form No. B 02 - DN

Form No. B 01 - DN

Form No. B 01 - DN

b) Annual financial statements for enterprises that do not meet the going concern assumption, including:
- Financial status report

- Business performance report

- Cash flow statement

- Notes to the Financial Statements

Form No. B 01 - DNKLT

Form No. B 02 - DNKLT

Form No. B 03 - DNKLT

Form No. B 09 - DNKLT

3. Interim financial reports include:
a) Full interim financial report, including:
- Mid-year financial report

- Mid-year business performance report

- Interim cash flow statement

- Notes to Selected Financial Statements

Form No. B 01a - DN

Form No. B 02a - DN

Form No. B 03a - DN

Form No. B 09a - DN

b) Summary interim financial report, including:
- Mid-year financial report

- Mid-year business performance report

- Interim cash flow statement

- Notes to Selected Financial Statements

Form No. B 01b - DN

Form No. B 02b - DN

Form No. B 03b - DN

Form No. B 09a - DN

4. The form of the Annual Financial Report and the Interim Financial Report (full and summary form) is guided in Appendix IV issued with this Circular. Expenses without figures are exempted from presentation in the Financial Report. Enterprises must proactively renumber the items according to the principle of continuity in each section but must not renumber the "Code" of the item.
Article 18. Amendment and supplementation of Financial Statements
1. Enterprises shall apply the Financial Reporting system in Appendix IV issued with this Circular to prepare and present the Financial Statements of the unit.
In order to be consistent with the characteristics of production and business activities and management requirements, enterprises may supplement the indicators of the Financial Statements guided in Appendix IV issued with this Circular. Such supplementation must ensure the provisions in Clauses 1 and 2, Article 29 of the Law on Accounting and comply with the principles of preparing and presenting Financial Statements guided in this Circular. Enterprises must explain in the Financial Statements the supplemented contents compared to the Financial Statement form guided in Appendix IV issued with this Circular.
When supplementing indicators of the Financial Statements, enterprises are responsible for promulgating the Accounting Regulations (or equivalent documents) on such supplemented contents to serve as a basis for implementation. The regulations must clearly state the necessity of such supplementation and the legal responsibility of the enterprise for the supplemented contents.
In case the enterprise does not supplement the indicators of the Financial Report, the Financial Report form as guided in Appendix IV issued with this Circular shall apply.
2. In case an enterprise has special characteristics that make it impossible to supplement or need to amend the indicators of the Financial Report as guided in Appendix IV issued with this Circular, it must report to the Ministry of Finance for guidance on preparing and presenting the Financial Report.
Article 19. Requirements for information presented in Financial Statements
1. Information presented in the Financial Statements must truthfully and reasonably reflect the financial situation, business results, cash flow and other financial information of the enterprise. Information in the Financial Statements must ensure completeness, objectivity and no errors.
- Information is considered complete when the Financial Statements include all necessary information to help users of the Financial Statements understand the nature, form and risks of transactions and events. For some items, the complete presentation must also describe additional information about the quality, factors and situations that may affect the quality and nature of the item.
- Objective information is information that when presented in the Financial Statements is unbiased, must ensure neutrality, be true to reality, not be distorted, not be falsified and not change the level of influence of financial information in a direction that is beneficial or unfavorable to users of the Financial Statements.
- Error-free means that the Financial Statements do not contain any omissions, mistakes, or fraud in describing the phenomena, selecting, applying, and providing the reported information. Error-free does not mean being completely accurate in all aspects. The presentation of an estimate is considered error-free if the nature and limitations of the estimation process are clearly explained and described, and there are no errors in selecting appropriate figures during the estimation process.
2. Financial information must be relevant to help users of Financial Statements predict, analyze and make economic decisions.
3. Financial information must be presented in all material respects. Information is considered material if its omission or misstatement could significantly distort the financial statements and influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends on the size or nature or both of the omission or misstatement judged in the particular circumstances.
4. Information must be verifiable, timely and understandable.
5. Financial information must be presented consistently and comparable between accounting periods and between enterprises. When an enterprise changes the principles of preparing and presenting financial statements from meeting the going concern assumption to not meeting the going concern assumption or vice versa, the enterprise must present in the Notes to the Financial Statements the nature, figures and reasons for reclassifying comparative figures of the indicators and items of the Financial Statements to ensure comparability with the current period (unless this cannot be done).
Article 20. Principles for preparing and presenting financial statements of enterprises meeting the going concern assumption
1. The preparation and presentation of Financial Statements must comply with the provisions of Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 21 - Presentation of Financial Statements and other relevant Vietnamese Accounting Standards. Important information must be explained to help readers understand the true financial situation of the enterprise.
2. Financial statements must reflect the economic substance of transactions and events rather than their legal form (substance over form).
3. Assets are not recorded at a value higher than their recoverable amount; Liabilities are not recorded at a value lower than their payment obligations.
4. Classification of assets and liabilities: Assets and liabilities on the Financial Statement must be presented as short-term and long-term, with indicators arranged in descending order of liquidity.
a) An asset is classified as current when it falls into one of the following cases:
(i) The enterprise expects to recover the asset or expects to sell or use the asset in a normal business cycle;
(ii) The enterprise holds the asset primarily for commercial purposes;
(iii) The enterprise expects to recover the asset within 12 months or less from the end of the accounting period;
(iv) The asset is cash or cash equivalents, unless the asset is prohibited from being exchanged or is not used to pay for a debt obligation that is due more than 12 months from the end of the accounting period.
Assets that are not classified as current according to the above guidance are classified as long-term assets.
b) A liability is classified as short-term when it falls into one of the following cases:
(i) The enterprise expects to pay this liability within a normal business cycle;
(ii) The enterprise holds the liability primarily for business purposes;
(iii) The liability is due for payment within 12 months or less from the end of the accounting period;
(iv) The enterprise does not have the right to refuse the obligation to pay the liability (loans, borrowings, financial leasing debts due, including cases where the liability will be paid by the enterprise by issuing capital instruments at the option of the counterparty) at any time within 12 months or less from the end of the accounting period.
Liabilities (e.g. payable to suppliers, employee expenses and other expenses incurred in the normal course of business) are part of working capital used in the normal course of business, then the enterprise must classify such liabilities as current liabilities even if the enterprise has an obligation to pay these liabilities within a period of more than 12 months from the end of the accounting period. Liabilities that
are not classified as current according to the above guidance are classified as long-term liabilities.
For liabilities classified as current, if the following events occur between the end of the accounting period and the date of issuance of the financial statements, these events are the following events that do not require adjustment:
- Agreement to extend short-term liabilities to long-term;
- Remedy of breaches in the agreement for long-term liabilities; and
- The creditor grants a grace period to remedy the breach of the agreement for long-term liabilities at least 12 months after the end of the accounting period.
At the same time, the enterprise must explain in the Notes to the Financial Statements the events that arise later as prescribed.
c) In case an enterprise chooses to classify assets and liabilities when presenting the Financial Statement according to the normal business cycle, the enterprise must explain the value expected to be recovered or paid within a period of more than 12 months for each line of asset and liability expenses when these indicators include the value expected to be recovered or paid:
(i) from 12 months or less from the end of the accounting period, and
(ii) more than 12 months from the end of the accounting period.
At the same time, the normal business cycle applied to classify the assets and liabilities of the enterprise is the same. For enterprises whose normal business cycle cannot be clearly determined, the business cycle of that enterprise is still considered to be 12 months.
d) When preparing the Financial Statements, enterprises must reclassify long-term assets and liabilities in the previous period into short-term assets and liabilities in the current period if, from the end of the accounting period, such assets or liabilities satisfy the conditions of being short-term assets or short-term liabilities as prescribed in Point a and Point b of this Clause, except for cases that are not reclassified according to the instructions in this Circular.
5. Assets and liabilities must be presented separately. Enterprises may only offset assets and liabilities when assets and liabilities relate to the same entity, have a quick turnover, short maturity, and arise from transactions and events of the same type.
6. Revenue, income and expenses items directly related to the generation of such revenue and income must be presented in accordance with the principle of conformity and ensure the principle of prudence. The business performance report and the cash flow report reflect the revenue, income, expense and cash flow items of the reporting period. In case the Financial Statements of previous periods are found to have material errors, they must be adjusted retrospectively according to regulations.
7. In case an enterprise has affiliated units, the enterprise's Financial Statement must summarize both the financial information of the head office and the affiliated units. The balance of internal items of the Financial Status Report, unrealized revenues, expenses, profits and losses arising from internal transactions must all be excluded.
Article 21. Principles for preparing and presenting Financial Statements when changing the accounting period
When changing the accounting period, for example, if an enterprise changes the accounting period from a calendar year to a period other than a calendar year, the enterprise must close the accounting books and prepare Financial Statements according to the following principles:
1. Changing the accounting period must comply with the provisions of the Accounting Law. When changing the annual accounting period, the enterprise must prepare separate Financial Statements for the period between the two accounting periods of the old fiscal year and the new fiscal year.
2. For the Financial Position Statement: All balances of assets, liabilities and equity at the end of the accounting period before conversion are recorded as the opening balance of the new accounting period and presented in the “Beginning Balance” column.
3. For the Business Performance Report and Cash Flow Report for the accounting period from the end of the previous accounting period to the time of changing the accounting period: the figures from the end of the previous accounting period to the time of changing the accounting period are presented in the column "This period". The column "Previous period" presents the corresponding figures in the previous accounting period or figures of 12 months on the Financial Statement of the previous fiscal year.
4. Enterprises must clearly explain:
a) Reasons for changing the year-end date;
b) The corresponding figures for comparison are presented in the Income Statement, Cash Flow Statement and related Notes to the Financial Statements. In case the "Previous Period" figures in the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement of this period are from the 12 months of the previous fiscal year, the enterprise must explain the incomparability between the information of the reporting period and the information of the comparison period according to the provisions of Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 21 - Presentation of Financial Statements.
Article 22. Principles for preparing and presenting Financial Statements when converting business types
When converting business types, businesses must close their accounting books and prepare Financial Statements according to the provisions of law. In the first accounting period after converting business types, businesses must record their accounting books and present Financial Statements according to the following principles:
1. For accounting books reflecting assets, liabilities and equity: All balances of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the old enterprise before conversion are recorded as the opening balance in the accounting books of the new enterprise.
2. For the Financial Position Statement: All assets, liabilities and equity inherited from the old enterprise before conversion are recorded as the opening balance of the new enterprise and presented in the "Beginning balance" column.
3. For the Business Performance Report and Cash Flow Statement: Data from the time of conversion to the end of the first reporting period is presented in the column "This period". The column "Previous period" presents cumulative data from the beginning of the reporting year to the time of conversion of the business type and the enterprise must clearly explain the reasons when it is not possible to compare the information of the reporting period and the information of the comparison period according to the provisions of Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 21 - Presentation of Financial Statements.
Article 23. Principles for preparing and presenting Financial Statements when dividing, separating, consolidating or merging enterprises
1. General principles
a) In case of enterprise merger
a1) When merging enterprises, enterprises (the acquiring enterprise and the merged enterprise) must comply with the provisions of the enterprise law and other relevant laws.
a2) The determination of the value of net assets that the acquiring enterprise receives from the merged enterprise is carried out as follows:
(i) In case the enterprise merger transaction satisfies the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation and at the same time the enterprise merger is carried out between enterprises under common control, the acquiring enterprise shall record in its accounting books the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise according to the book value on the separate financial statements of the merged enterprise at the time of merger.
(ii) In case the business merger transaction satisfies the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business Consolidation and the business merger is carried out between enterprises not under common control, the acquiring enterprise shall record the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise according to the purchase method as in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business Consolidation.
(iii) In case the business merger transaction does not satisfy the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business Consolidation, the acquiring enterprise shall record the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise as purchasing a group of assets or net assets.
a3) Determining the cost to carry out a business merger transaction
(i) In case the acquiring enterprise uses investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates, other investments or pays additional money or uses non-monetary assets such as inventories, fixed assets, investment real estate, etc. or issues capital instruments to pay other investors when carrying out a business merger transaction, the determination of the value of investments, non-monetary assets or capital instruments issued by the acquiring enterprise is carried out as follows:
- In case the business merger transaction satisfies business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation: The determination of the value of non-monetary assets exchanged, liabilities incurred and capital instruments issued to carry out the merger transaction is carried out as guided in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation.
- In case the business merger transaction does not satisfy the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business combination: The receiving enterprise uses the fair value of the assets and liabilities received at the exchange date as the priority value to determine the value paid for the non-monetary assets taken away or the capital instruments issued for the business merger transaction. In case the fair value of the assets and liabilities received at the exchange date cannot be determined or is not reliable, the basis for the fair value of the assets taken away to carry out the business merger transaction or the value that other evidence and calculation methods prove to be more reliable. The difference (if any) between the value of the issued shares and the par value of the shares is reflected in capital surplus. The difference (if any) between the fair value and the book value of inventories, fixed assets, investment real estate, etc. is accounted for in the business results of the period similar to the sale or exchange of these assets.
In case the payment price is determined in common for many non-monetary assets exchanged, with the understanding of the parties at the transaction date, the merging enterprise determines the selling price for each asset exchanged in a systematic way (such as allocation according to the book value, the fair value of the assets exchanged at the exchange date, etc.).
The parties must comply with the provisions of relevant laws in determining the value of non-monetary assets exchanged to carry out the enterprise merger transaction. The revaluation of the book value of non-monetary assets taken away to carry out a business merger transaction shall only be carried out when there is solid and reliable evidence proving that the market value of such non-monetary assets at the time of exchange is different from the accounting book value of such assets. The parties participating in the business merger transaction and related parties shall be responsible before the law for intentionally valuing or incorrectly determining the value of non-monetary assets taken away to carry out the business merger transaction.
(ii) The acquiring enterprise shall stop recording the assets that the unit must take away or spend to carry out the business merger transaction such as investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates, other investments, issuance of capital instruments, cash amounts, non-monetary assets or other benefits, etc. according to the book value of these assets on the separate financial statements of the acquiring unit. This book value is determined by the original cost minus provisions for asset losses or by the original cost minus accumulated depreciation of fixed assets and investment real estate.
a4) Accounting principles for the difference between the cost of implementing the merger transaction (the value of assets or benefits that the acquiring enterprise must pay or reduce) compared with the value of net assets received from the merged enterprise in the case of a merger transaction that satisfies business operations as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation:
(i) In the case of a business merger transaction conducted between parties under common control, the difference between the cost of implementing the merger transaction and the book value of net assets on the separate financial statements of the merged enterprise shall be fully accounted for in Account 4118 - Other capital and periodically transferred to Account 421 - Undistributed profit after tax on the accounting books of the acquiring enterprise for a period of no more than 10 years, starting from the date of business merger using the straight-line method or other more reasonable methods.
(ii) In case a business merger transaction is carried out between parties not under common control, the difference between the cost of implementing the merger transaction and the fair value of the net assets identifiable on the separate financial statements of the merged enterprise shall be accounted for as commercial advantages or commercial disadvantages arising in the business merger transaction according to the guidance of Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business merger.
a5) In case a business merger arises with internal transactions on the purchase and sale of goods, services, fixed assets, etc., after receiving the handover of the net assets of the subsidiary, the parent company must eliminate the internal transactions before preparing and presenting the separate financial statements of the parent company for the accounting period in which the business merger is carried out.
a6) Determining tax obligations related to internal transactions on the purchase and sale of goods, services, fixed assets, etc. when merging enterprises shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of tax law. Deferred corporate income tax related to temporary differences between the value of net assets and the tax base of net assets (which may arise due to unrealized profits/losses from internal transactions) is accounted for by the acquiring enterprise according to Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 17 - Corporate Income Tax.
a7) In cases of corporate mergers that do not fall under the above cases, enterprises shall base on the principles prescribed in the system of Vietnamese Accounting Standards, the instructions in this Circular and the nature of the merger transaction to perform appropriate accounting.
b) In case of division, separation, or merger of enterprises
b1) When dividing, separating, or merging enterprises, enterprises (new enterprises and enterprises being divided, separated, or merged) must comply with the provisions of the Enterprise Law and other relevant laws.
b2) The determination of the value of net assets that the new enterprise receives from the enterprise being divided, separated, or merged is carried out as follows:
(i) In case of enterprise merger:
- In case the enterprise merger transaction satisfies the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business merger and the enterprise merger is carried out between enterprises under common control, the new enterprise is allowed to record in its accounting books the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise according to the book value on the separate financial statements of the merged enterprise at the time of enterprise merger.
- In case the business consolidation transaction satisfies the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation and the business consolidation is carried out between enterprises not under common control, the enterprise will record the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise according to the purchase method as in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation.
- In case the business consolidation transaction does not satisfy the business activities as defined in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation, the enterprise will record the assets and liabilities received from the merged enterprise as purchasing a group of assets or net assets.
(ii) In case of division or separation of enterprises: The new enterprise is allowed to record in its accounting books the value of net assets received from the divided or separated enterprise according to the book value on the separate financial statements of the divided or separated enterprise at the time of division or separation of the enterprise.
b3) In case a new enterprise issues capital instruments to carry out a division, separation or merger transaction, the new enterprise shall use the fair value of the assets and liabilities received on the exchange date as the priority value to be used first to determine the fair value of the capital instruments, except in the case of determining the value of the issued capital instruments when calculating the business consolidation cost, the enterprise shall follow the guidance in Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 11 - Business consolidation. In case the fair value of the assets and liabilities received on the exchange date cannot be determined or is not reliable, the fair value of the capital instrument shall be the listed price on the stock market. In case the capital instrument does not have a listed price, the value that other evidence and calculation methods prove to be more reliable shall be used. The difference between the value of the issued shares and the par value of the shares shall be reflected in capital surplus.
b4) In cases of division, separation or merger of enterprises that do not fall under the above cases, enterprises shall base on the principles prescribed in the Vietnamese Accounting Standards system, the instructions in this Circular and the nature of the division, separation or merger of enterprises to perform appropriate accounting.
c) The division, separation, consolidation and merger of enterprises in state-owned enterprises, if regulated differently from the principles prescribed in this Article, shall be implemented in accordance with the provisions of law on state-owned enterprises.
2. The accounting records and preparation of financial statements of related enterprises when dividing, separating, consolidating or merging enterprises shall be carried out according to the following principles:
a) For accounting books reflecting assets, liabilities and equity:
a1) The value of assets, liabilities and equity received from the merged enterprise is recorded by the acquiring enterprise as an amount arising during the period in the accounting books. The opening balance line of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the acquiring enterprise remains unchanged.
a2) The value of assets, liabilities and equity received from the merged enterprise is recorded by the new enterprise as an amount arising during the period in the accounting books. The opening balance line of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the new enterprise has no figures.
a3) The value of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the divided enterprise transferred to the new enterprise is recorded as an amount arising in the accounting books of the new enterprise. The beginning balance of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the new enterprise has no figures.
a4) The value of assets, liabilities and equity of the separated enterprise transferred to the new enterprise is recorded as an arising number in the accounting books of the new enterprise. The beginning balance of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the new enterprise has no figures. The beginning balance of assets, liabilities and equity in the accounting books of the separated enterprise remains unchanged.
b) For the Financial Situation Report:
b1) The value of assets, liabilities and equity received from the merged enterprise will be summarized by the receiving enterprise to present in the "End of year" column on the Financial Situation Report. The "Beginning of year" column of the receiving enterprise remains unchanged.
b2) The value of assets, liabilities and equity received from the merged enterprise will be summarized by the new enterprise to present in the "End of year" column on the Financial Situation Report. The "Beginning of year" column of the new enterprise has no data.
b3) The value of assets, liabilities and equity inherited from the divided or separated enterprise will be summarized by the new enterprise to present in the "End of year" column on the Financial Situation Report. The "Beginning of year" column of the new enterprise has no data. The "Beginning of year" column of the separated enterprise will remain unchanged.
c) For the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement:
c1) The acquiring enterprise only records and presents the data of the merged enterprise in its Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement from the time of merger to the end of the reporting period in the column "This year". The column "Previous year" of the acquiring enterprise remains unchanged.
c2) The new enterprise only presents the data from the time of division, separation, or consolidation of the enterprise to the end of the first reporting period in the column "This year". The column "Previous year" of the new enterprise has no data. The separated enterprise no longer records and presents the data of the separated enterprise from the time of separation to the end of the reporting period.
Article 24. Principles for preparing and presenting Financial Statements when an enterprise does not meet the going concern assumption
1. When preparing and presenting the Financial Statements, enterprises must consider signs that the entity does not meet the assumption of continuous operation. An enterprise is considered not a going concern if it is expected to be dissolved or bankrupt or to stop production and business or significantly reduce the scale of operations as prescribed within a period of 12 months or less from the end of the accounting period. Enterprises must explain the business's continuing operation situation when there are material uncertainties that may cause significant doubts about the ability to continue operating.
2. In the following cases, an enterprise is still considered to be a going concern and therefore does not have to prepare and present financial statements on the basis of not meeting the going concern assumption:
- Conversion of enterprise type, including equitization of a State-owned enterprise into a joint stock company;
- Division, separation, consolidation, merger of an enterprise;
- Conversion of an enterprise (subsidiary) into a affiliated unit (branch) or vice versa.
3. When not meeting the going concern assumption, the enterprise must still prepare the following complete Financial Statements:
- Financial statement applicable to enterprises that do not meet the going concern assumption

Form B 01 - DNKLT and presented in a separate form

- Income statement applicable to enterprises that do not meet the going concern assumption

Form B 02 - DNKLT and is presented in a similar general form to the enterprise meeting the going concern assumption.

- Cash flow statement applicable to enterprises that do not meet the going concern assumption

Form B 03 - DNKLT and presented in the same general form as the enterprise meeting the going concern assumption

- Notes to the Financial Statements applicable to enterprises that do not meet the going concern assumption

Form B 09 - DNKLT and presented in a separate form

4. In case the assumption of continuous operation is no longer appropriate at the end of the accounting period, the enterprise must reclassify long-term assets and long-term liabilities into short-term assets and short-term liabilities and the enterprise must re-evaluate all assets and liabilities, except in cases where a third party inherits the rights to assets or obligations to liabilities at book value. The enterprise must record in the accounting books at the re-evaluated price before preparing the Financial Position Statement.
5. Enterprises do not have to revalue assets and liabilities if a third party inherits rights to assets or obligations to liabilities in the following specific cases:
a) Each specific asset item is committed and guaranteed by another party to be recovered for the dissolved or bankrupt unit at book value and the recovery takes place before the unit officially ceases operations;
b) Each specific liability item is committed and guaranteed by a third party for payment to the dissolved or bankrupt unit, and the dissolved or bankrupt unit is only obligated to pay back to that third party at book value.
6. Revaluation is performed for each type of asset and liability at the end of the accounting period according to the following principles:
a) For assets:
- Inventories, biological assets, long-term unfinished production and business costs, equipment, supplies, and long-term replacement parts are valued and recorded at the lower of the original cost and the net realizable value;
- Tangible fixed assets, intangible fixed assets, investment real estate, and unfinished construction costs are valued and recorded at the lower of the remaining value and the recoverable value (the liquidation price minus estimated liquidation costs). For financial leased fixed assets, if there is a mandatory repurchase clause, they are re-valued and recorded similarly to the enterprise's fixed assets. If they are returned to the lessor, they are re-valued and recorded according to the financial lease debt still payable to the lessor;
- Trading securities are valued and recorded at fair value;
- Held-to-maturity investments, receivables, investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other entities are valued and recorded at the lower of book value and recoverable value (sale price less estimated costs to sell).
b) For payables: In case there is a written agreement between the parties on the payable amount, the revaluation shall be based on the agreed amount. In case there is no specific agreement, the following shall be implemented:
- Cash payables shall be re-evaluated and recorded at the higher value between the book value of the payable and the value of the debt paid before maturity as stipulated in the contract;
- Financial assets payables shall be re-evaluated and recorded at the higher value between the book value of the payable and the fair value of that financial asset;
- Inventory payables shall be re-evaluated and recorded at the higher value between the book value of the payable and the purchase price (plus directly related costs) or the cost of production of the inventory;
- Fixed assets payables shall be re-evaluated and recorded at the higher value between the book value of the payable and the purchase price (plus directly related costs) or the remaining value of the fixed assets.
c) Foreign currency items are revalued at the average transfer exchange rate of the commercial bank where the enterprise regularly conducts transactions at the end of the accounting period as usual. As for the balance of non-term deposits in foreign currency, the enterprise must revalue at the average transfer exchange rate of the commercial bank where the enterprise opens a non-term deposit account.
7. Accounting method for some asset items when the enterprise does not meet the going concern assumption:
a) The provision or assessment of asset losses is recorded directly in the book value of the asset, without making provision in Account 229 - Asset Loss Provision;
b) The depreciation or loss recognition of fixed assets and investment real estate is recorded directly in the book value of the assets, without using Account 214 - Depreciation of fixed assets to reflect accumulated depreciation.
8. When the going concern assumption is no longer appropriate, the enterprise must address the following financial issues:
- Make provision for expenses to determine business results for losses expected to arise in the future if the possibility of a loss is relatively certain and the value of the loss is reliably estimated; Record current obligations for payables even in cases where there are not yet complete documents (such as minutes of acceptance of contractor's volume, etc.) but payment is certain;
- For the difference in revaluation of accumulated assets belonging to the owner's equity, it is transferred to other income (if profit) or other expenses (if loss);
- For the exchange rate difference that is reflected cumulatively on the Financial Position Statement, the enterprise transfers the entire amount to financial operating revenue (if profit) or financial expenses (if loss);
- Unallocated pending expenses are fully reduced to be included in the related production and business expenses in the period depending on each specific transaction similar to the recognition of a continuously operating enterprise in the period;
- The parent company stops recognizing commercial advantages on the Consolidated Financial Statements, the unallocated commercial advantages are immediately included in the enterprise management expenses;
- The profit and loss differences when re-evaluating assets and liabilities after offsetting with the provision amount are recorded in financial operating revenue, other income or financial expenses, other expenses depending on each specific item similar to the recognition of a continuously operating enterprise.
9. When preparing the Financial Statements, in case the assumption of continuous operation is no longer appropriate, the enterprise must explain in detail the ability to generate cash and pay debts and equity to shareholders and must reclassify the comparative figures on the Financial Statements of the first period in which the enterprise does not meet the assumption of continuous operation (unless this cannot be done) to ensure comparability with the reporting period as well as must present the nature, figures and reasons for the reclassification. If it is not possible to reclassify the corresponding comparative figures, the enterprise must clearly explain and explain the reasons for the incomparability between the information of the reporting period and the information of the comparative period, specifically as follows:
- Amount recoverable from liquidation, sale of assets, collection of receivables;
- Ability to pay debts in order of priority, such as the ability to pay debts to the State Budget, pay debts to employees, pay loans, debts to suppliers, etc.;
- Ability to pay to owners, for joint stock companies, it is necessary to clearly announce how much money each share will receive;
- Time to pay debts and equity;
- Reasons for not being able to compare information between the reporting period and the comparison period: Because in the previous period, the enterprise prepared the Financial Statements according to the principle of meeting the assumption of continuous operation, but for the reporting period, the enterprise is expected to be dissolved or bankrupt or stop production and business or significantly reduce the scale of operations, so the Financial Statements are presented according to the principle of not meeting the assumption of continuous operation.
Article 25. Deadline for submission of Financial Reports
Enterprises must submit annual Financial Reports to competent authorities no later than 90 days from the end of the annual accounting period.
Enterprises that are parent companies or corporations shall stipulate the deadline for submission of Financial Reports of subsidiaries and affiliated units to consolidate or summarize Financial Reports in accordance with current laws and the management requirements of the unit.
For enterprises whose relevant laws stipulate the submission of Financial Reports according to other accounting periods (Quarterly, semi-annual Financial Reports, etc.), the deadline for submission of these Financial Reports shall comply with the provisions of such relevant laws.
Article 26. Place of receipt of Financial Reports
1. The submission of the enterprise's Financial Report to the competent authority must be carried out in accordance with the provisions of relevant laws.
2. For enterprises that are required by law to have their Financial Statements audited, when submitting their Financial Statements to competent authorities, they must attach an audit report as prescribed.
3. In case the Financial Report of an enterprise is kept in the National Information System on Business Registration, the agencies receiving the Financial Report of the enterprise are required to provide information on the Financial Report of the enterprise according to the provisions of law.
Article 27. Disclosure of Financial Statements
1. Financial Statement Disclosure is the act of an enterprise announcing information about its Financial Statements in one or several forms of disclosure prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article so that users such as owners, creditors, suppliers, investors, etc. can obtain information on the enterprise's Financial Statements.
2. Subjects of disclosure
Subjects of disclosure of Financial Statements are the subjects that receive information published on the Financial Statements of enterprises according to the provisions of the Law on Enterprises and other relevant laws.
3. Publication form
- Publication: is the form of the enterprise's Financial Report printed in a book to provide information to the subjects receiving the information published according to the provisions of the Enterprise Law and other relevant laws. The enterprise must store this publication as the enterprise's accounting document.
- Written notice: is the form in which the enterprise sends a written notice with the enterprise's Financial Report attached to it to the subjects receiving the information published about the enterprise's Financial Report according to the provisions of the Enterprise Law and other relevant laws.
- Posting: is the form in which the enterprise's Financial Report is publicly posted at the enterprise's headquarters to provide information to the subjects receiving the information published about the enterprise's Financial Report according to the provisions of the Enterprise Law and other relevant laws.
- Posting on the website: is the form of the enterprise's Financial Report posted on the enterprise's website, which clearly states the link to the enterprise's Financial Report.
- Other forms as prescribed by relevant laws.
4. The content and deadline for public disclosure of Financial Reports shall comply with the provisions of the Law on Accounting and its amendments, supplements and replacements.
5. For enterprises that are required by law to have their Financial Statements audited, when publicizing their Financial Statements, they must attach an audit report as prescribed.
CHAPTER VI
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
Article 28. Regulations on the use of accounting software
1. Enterprises may use accounting software to perform accounting work according to the provisions of this Circular. The accounting software that enterprises choose to use must ensure at least the following professional and technical requirements on accounting:
a) The accounting processes and operations established on the software must ensure compliance with the provisions of accounting law, tax law and other relevant laws, and must not change the nature, principles, accounting methods and information and data presented in accounting books and financial statements as prescribed.
b) The processing of accounting procedures, information and related data must ensure accuracy, consistency and no duplication. When making corrections, traces of the recorded accounting contents must be kept in chronological order.
c) Information and data on accounting software must ensure confidentiality, security and must comply with legal regulations on information security and safety. The information system must be set up to be able to warn or prevent intentional interference that changes information and data recorded in accounting books.
d) Provide complete and timely information and output data as required by competent authorities and data and information users.
d) Able to connect or ready to connect with relevant software when performing accounting work (electronic invoice software, digital signature,...).
e) Capable of upgrading, amending and supplementing in accordance with changes in accounting, tax and other relevant laws.
2. Business managers, chief accountants/accounting managers and relevant persons must be responsible for the accuracy and truthfulness of accounting information and data provided from accounting software.
Article 29. Conversion of balances in accounting books
1. Enterprises shall convert the balances of the following accounts:
- Enterprises shall base on the balances of detailed accounts 111, 112, 113, 121, 153, 154, 156, 211, 212, 213 to transfer details in accordance with the management requirements of the enterprise (if any).
- Enterprises that are capital contributors but are not accounting parties for business cooperation contracts, if by the time this Circular takes effect, the business cooperation contract has not ended, shall base on the detailed balance of Account 138 - Other receivables (details of capital value contributed to non-jointly controlled business cooperation contracts) to convert the balance to Account 2281 - Capital contribution investment in other units in accordance with the nature and position of the enterprise in the business cooperation contract according to the instructions in this Circular.
- The enterprise bases on the detailed balance of Account 2413 - Major repairs of fixed assets for the cost of upgrading and renovating unfinished fixed assets to Account 2414 - Upgrading and renovating fixed assets.
- The enterprise bases on the detailed credit balance of Account 338 - Other payables for the amount of dividends and profits to transfer to Account 332 - Dividends and profits to pay.
- The enterprise bases on the balance of Account 441 - Capital for basic construction investment and the balance of Account 466 - Funds for forming fixed assets to transfer to Account 4118 - Other capital.
2. Other contents currently reflected in detail on related accounts, if different from this Circular, must be adjusted according to the provisions of this Circular.
Article 30. Transitional provisions
1. Enterprises apply the following principles when there is a change in accounting policy:
a) In case an enterprise has to change its accounting policy due to the first application of the provisions of law or Vietnamese Accounting Standards, accounting regimes that have specific conversion instructions (applying the retroactive, simple retroactive or non-retroactive adjustment method), it must follow those instructions. In which:
- The retroactive or non-retroactive adjustment method is implemented according to the provisions of Vietnamese Accounting Standard No. 29 - Changes in accounting policies, accounting estimates and errors.
- The simple retroactive adjustment method is a method that does not re-present comparative figures from the first affected period but calculates the cumulative impact on the first day of the accounting period when the new accounting policy is first applied and adjusts the corresponding asset and liability items to undistributed profit after tax or other items in equity on the first day of the accounting period when the new accounting policy is applied.
b) In case an enterprise has to change its accounting policy due to the first application of legal provisions or Vietnamese Accounting Standards, an accounting regime that does not require retroactive or simple retroactive adjustment, the method of non-retroactive adjustment of that accounting policy may be applied.
c) In case an enterprise voluntarily changes its accounting policy, it must apply the change in accounting policy retrospectively.
2. Enterprises that are investors in bonds that incur bond discounts or premiums, if by the time this Circular takes effect the bonds have not reached the payment deadline, the enterprises may choose to apply the retroactive adjustment method or simple retroactive adjustment according to the guidance in Clause 1 of this Article to account for the discounts and premiums arising when purchasing bonds for the first period's Financial Statements applying this Circular.
3. In case an enterprise has an exchange rate difference arising when converting the accounting currency unit of Vietnamese Dong to another accounting currency unit and vice versa, which has been reflected in the Credit balance or Debit balance of Account 412 - Difference in revaluation of assets and presented on the Balance Sheet, the Credit balance or Debit balance of Account 412 - Difference in revaluation of assets must be transferred to Account 421 - Undistributed profit after tax (Account 4211) and must clearly present the reasons and impacts on the Financial Statements in the Notes to the Financial Statements.
4. In case an enterprise is making provision for major repair costs of fixed assets, but when this Circular takes effect, the major repair of fixed assets has not been carried out, the enterprise shall not continue to make provision for major repair costs of fixed assets. When major repair of fixed assets is carried out, the enterprise shall transfer the actual major repair costs of fixed assets to the amount made in advance, the difference between the amount of major repair costs made in advance and the amount actually incurred shall be gradually allocated to production and business expenses of each period.
Article 31. Implementation provisions
1. This Circular takes effect from January 1, 2026 and applies to fiscal years starting on or after January 1, 2026. 2014/TT-BTC dated December 22, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance guiding the enterprise accounting regime (except for the case specified in Clause 2 of this Article), Circular No. 75 /2015/TT-BTC dated May 18, 2015 of the Ministry of Finance on amending and supplementing Article 128 of Circular No. 200/2014/TT-BTC dated December 22, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance, Circular No. 53/2016/TT-BTC dated March 21, 2016 on amending and supplementing a number of Articles of Circular No. 200/2014/TT-BTC dated December 22, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance and Circular No. 195/2012/TT-BTC dated November 15, 2012 guiding accounting applicable to investor units.
2. The contents related to accounting for equitization of State-owned enterprises are guided in Clauses 3.11 and 3.12, Article 21 ; Clause 3.3, Article 35 ; Points h and i, Clause 3, Article 38 ; Point c, Clause 5, Article 40 ; Point c, Clause 3.1, Point d, Clause 3.2, Point e, Clause 3.3, Point d, Clause 3.4, Article 45 ; Points k, l, m, Clause 3, Article 47 ; Point l, Clause 3, Article 54 ; Clauses 3.2 and 3.9, Article 57 ; Point d, Clause 3, Article 62 ; Point p, Clause 3, Article 63


 ; Clause 3.13, Article 67 ; Article 71 ; Point g, Clause 3, Article 74 ; Point d, Clause 3, Article 77 ; Clauses 3.15 and 3.16, Article 92 ; Point m, Clause 3, Article 93 ; Point d, Clause 3, Article 94 of Circular No. 200/2014/TT-BTC dated December 22, 2014 of the Ministry of Finance guiding the enterprise accounting regime will continue to be implemented until there is a replacement document.
3. Small and medium-sized enterprises, non-public establishments, and other accounting units may choose to apply this Circular to accounting in accordance with the characteristics of their production and business activities and management requirements. When applying this Circular, units must implement it consistently for at least one accounting year. When an enterprise changes its applied accounting regime, it must re-present data and comparative information similar to when changing its accounting policy and explain the reasons and impacts of such changes in the explanatory section of the Financial Statements as prescribed.
4. Ministries, branches, People's Committees, Departments of Finance and Tax of provinces and centrally run cities are responsible for guiding enterprises to implement this Circular. In the process of implementation, if there are any problems, please report them to the Ministry of Finance for research and resolution./.
Recipients:
- Central Party Secretariat;
- Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers;
- Central Office and Party Committees;
- Office of the General Secretary;
- Office of the National Assembly;
- Council of Nationalities and Committees of the National Assembly;
- Office of the President;
- Supreme People's Procuracy;
- Supreme People's Court;
- State Audit;
- Central Committee of the Vietnam Fatherland Front;
- Vietnam Federation of Commerce and Industry;
- Ministries, ministerial-level agencies, and government agencies;
- People's Councils and People's Committees of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Department of Finance of provinces and centrally-run cities;
- Taxes of provinces and centrally run cities;
- Department of Document Inspection and Administrative Violations Handling Management (Ministry of Justice);
- Vietnam Association of Accountants and Auditors;
- Vietnam Association of Certified Public Accountants;
- Official Gazette; Electronic information portal: Government, Ministry of Finance;
- Units under and directly under the Ministry of Finance;
- Save: VT, QLKT (copy).
KT. MINISTER
DEPUTY MINISTER
 
 
 
 
 
Nguyen Duc Tam

LuatVietnam is updating the Word version of the document…